About Hydro-Québec: Learn more about us. Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu All sites News Contact us Power outages Français Log-in Residential Business About Us Launch search Show Menu Log-in Mission and activities Our energy Corporate culture Strategic Plan Financial results Quarterly Bulletin Annual Report Governance Board of Directors Management team Subsidiaries and holdings Ethics Acts and regulations Corporate policies We’re proud to be working for you! We generate, transmit and distribute electricity. Customer satisfaction is at the very heart of our concerns and we are strong proponents of energy efficiency. Our electricity, clean and renewable, helps combat climate change while promoting a greener, stronger economy. Mission and activities What we do every day to fulfill our mission. Our energy Clean and renewable, and we’re working to keep it that way. Corporate culture The know-how, values and practices we share and that inform our actions. Strategic Plan Our roadmap to the future. Financial results Our profitability contributes to the collective wealth of Quebecers. Governance Keeping us focused on our mission. Interested in our operations and culture? 							We’re looking for new energies. Join our team, we’re recruiting. Video: Hydro-Québec – A source of collective wealth Learn about our operations and values, the role of hydropower in the fight against climate change, our new technologies and our international presence. Duration: 2 minutes 11 seconds Important links Link to main sections Residential Business Link to some of our sites About Energy Wise Security advice Newsroom Contact us Power outages Jobs* Our sites Newsletters Follow us Linkedin Youtube Facebook Instagram Twitter @hydroquebec Follow us to learn more about company news. 									 @hydro_customer Questions about your bill, electricity use or our services? 									 Apps Apple Store Google Store Voice Assistants Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996- 						2021. All rights reserved. * Web site in French only