Accommodations Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/summer/accommodations.html Concordia University Site search fr Menu Concordia University The Grey Nuns Residence: Summer Stays Amenities Groups Long stays Things to do Map & directions FAQ Book now fr The Campaign for Concordia Site search Concordia Directories Search The Grey Nuns Residence: Summer Stays A UNIQUE MONTREAL EXPERIENCEBetter than a hostel. Cheaper than a hotel.Due to the coronavirus pandemic, the Grey Nuns residence will remain closed this summer.Book now Please note that due to COVID-19, the Grey Nuns residence will remain closed for the year. The Grey Nuns Residence The Grey Nuns Residence is a magnificent heritage building in the heart of Montreal’s vibrant downtown. This former convent, now a Concordia University student residence, opens to the public during summer offering simple, clean and secure accommodations at unbeatable rates. All our rooms are private – meaning you’ll never be sharing a dorm, hostel-style with strangers. Most have sinks, with shared washrooms in the hallway, or we have a small number of rooms with private ensuite bathrooms. Stay connected at all times with our free, high-speed wifi and if you have questions or need advice, help is on hand 24/7. Located just steps from the shops and restaurants of Ste Catherine Street, Grey Nuns is within easy reach of all that Montreal has to offer; walk to the Mont Royal for amazing views of the city, head for the cobbled streets and boutiques of the Old Port or experience the summer festivals in Place des Arts. And if you need a break from the hustle and bustle of the city, unwind in our beautiful private garden with ancient shade trees and a wildlife pond. Whether you’re staying for 1 night or 3 months, the Grey Nuns Residence is a unique place, in a unique city and is sure to make your stay a memorable one. Linens & towels 24hr security Free wifi Laundry Lounge Individuals Looking for a cheap hotel in the heart of Montreal? Stay in our residence from $55 per night. reserve today Groups Travelling as a group in Montreal and looking for budget accommodation? Contact us to get our special group rates. learn more Long-term stays Visiting the city for a course, an internship or just for fun? Take advantage of our long-term stay rates (30+ nights) from $23 per night. learn more Location 1190 Guy Street (between Ste-Catherine and René-Lévesque) Phone 514-848-2828 Check-in time 4:00 PM Check-out 11:00 AM CITQ Establishment number 625796 Public transit Métro: Station Guy-Concordia (Green Line) Station Lucien-L'Allier (Orange Line) From airport:  Bus 747; second stop (René-Lévesque at Guy) Have a question? Ask us Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy