Art Education Courses Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fine-arts-courses/art-education-courses.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 Academics 	 	  /  	 Graduate programs 	 	  /  	 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Winter 2022 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Fine Arts Courses 	 	  /  	 Art Education Courses 	 Art Education Courses Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Art Education MA  CoursesARTE 606 Topics in Studio Inquiry (3 credits)Description: In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryNotes:This course may be repeated as ARTE 607, ARTE 608, ARTE 609, ARTE 610, ARTE 611. ARTE 607 Topics in Studio Inquiry (3 credits)Description: In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryNotes:Students enrol in this course if they wish to repeat ARTE 606 for credit, provided the subject matter is different. ARTE 608 Topics in Studio Inquiry (3 credits)Description: In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryNotes:Students enrol in this course if they wish to repeat ARTE 607 for credit, provided the subject matter is different.ARTE 609 Topics in Studio Inquiry (3 credits)Description: : In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryNotes:Students enrol in this course if they wish to repeat ARTE 608 for credit, provided the subject matter is different.ARTE 610 Topics in Studio Inquiry (3 credits)Description: In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryNotes:Students enrol in this course if they wish to repeat ARTE 609 for credit, provided the subject matter is different.ARTE 611 Topics in Studio Inquiry (3 credits)Description: In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryNotes:Students enrol in this course if they wish to repeat ARTE 610 for credit, provided the subject matters is different.ARTE 660 Selected Topics in Art Education (3 credits)Description: A seminar course offering students the opportunity to study various aspects of art education. Specific topics vary from year to year to take advantage of the special expertise of the faculty.Component(s): Lecture; SeminarARTE 664 Independent Study (3 credits)Component(s): Independent StudyARTE 665 Independent Study (3 credits)Component(s): Independent StudyARTE 670 Critical Perspectives on Art Education History: History, Theory and Practice (3 credits)Description: A seminar course in which students develop critical reading and writing skills while adding to their understanding of developments past and present that have shaped the field of art education.Component(s): SeminarARTE 672 Advanced Critical Analysis (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: ARTE 670. Description: A seminar course in which students develop advanced skills in critical analysis, academic writing and library research. Assignments include compiling and writing a review of literature on a topic of research or professional interest.Component(s): SeminarARTE 680 Foundations for Inquiry (3 credits)Description: A seminar course in which students are introduced to the basic concepts, terminology, and contexts of inquiry in art education. Students learn about the practice of systematic inquiry, including: identifying and articulating a topic or question; situating the inquiry within a theoretical framework; relating the inquiry to art education practices; and selecting appropriate inquiry procedures. Each student develops a proposal for a small-scale project related to his/her particular art education interests.Component(s): SeminarARTE 682 Research Practice (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: ARTE 680. Description: A seminar course in which students conduct a small-scale research project based on their own research proposal. Students are introduced to appropriate forms and practices for conducting the project and presenting the results.Component(s): SeminarARTE 698 Thesis (24 credits)Description: The thesis topic is chosen in consultation with the thesis supervisor, and is approved by the thesis advisory committee. Students produce a thesis proposal; conduct the proposed inquiry; produce the thesis; and present it orally to their thesis advisory committee. Scholarly Thesis: Students develop a research based scholarly thesis in consultation with the faculty supervisor. The thesis is a minimum of 20,000 words and must address a research question or problem through an empirical or philosophical investigation. The thesis must include a discussion that documents the student’s reflections upon the methods and procedures employed, and the actual findings that resulted from an examination of the problem. The thesis culminates in a discussion of its implications for art education theory and/or practice. The thesis is presented to the advisory committee for evaluation, and for defence in an oral examination. Studio-based Thesis: Students develop a cohesive body of artwork for presentation and a minimum 10,000 word written thesis component comprising a review of literature and other relevant resources, a theoretical and methodological contextualization, a critical reflection on the project and its outcomes, a linking of art making with art education and other areas of analysis as deemed necessary by the student and the student’s advisory committee. The artwork and text, together comprising the thesis, are presented to the advisory committee. Evaluation includes an oral examination on both components. Teaching-based Thesis: Students organize and conduct a professional teaching project, develop a teaching dossier, and write a thesis text directly related to art education, with the guidance of the faculty supervisor. The project may be carried out on site in an educational setting or institution. In the written component of the thesis (minimum10,000 words) students document, analyze and evaluate the project, presenting a literature review, a theoretical and methodological contextualization, and a critical reflection on the project and its outcomes. Evaluation includes an oral examination on this text, on the teaching portfolio, and on the outcomes of the project. Guidelines for the thesis are described in Thesis Preparation Guide available from the School of Graduate Studies and Art Education’s Master of Arts Thesis Procedures available from the department’s programs office.Component(s): Thesis ResearchArt Education PhD CoursesARTE 806 Inquiry Through Art Production (3 credits)Description: In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryNotes:This course may be repeated as ARTE 807. ARTE 850 Selected Topics in Art Education (3 credits)Description: A seminar course offering students the opportunity to study various aspects of art education. Specific topics vary from year to year to take advantage of the special expertise of the faculty.Component(s): LectureARTE 807 Inquiry Through Art Production (3 credits)Description: In this course students identify the content and the processes essential to their on-going studio performance. Students are expected to develop parallel inquiry into exhibitions, installations, performances, documentations, notation systems and related readings. Evaluation is based on workshop and seminar participation, studio performance and class presentations. Computer access and shared studio space are available.Component(s): Studio; LaboratoryARTE 867 Directed Studies in Art Education I (3 credits)Description: Independent study in the area of concentration.Component(s): Independent StudyARTE 868 Directed Studies in Art Education II (3 credits)Description: Independent study in the area of concentration.Component(s): Independent StudyARTE 870 Critical Perspectives on Art Education: History, Theory and Practice (3 credits)Description: A seminar course in which students develop critical reading and writing skills while adding to their understanding of developments past and present that have shaped the field of art education.Component(s): SeminarARTE 872 Advanced Critical Analysis (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: ARTE 870. Description: A seminar course in which students develop advanced skills in critical analysis, academic writing and library research. Assignments include compiling and writing a review of literature related to thesis research. Students develop questions related to their area of research and professional interest to be used on their PhD comprehensive examination.Component(s): SeminarARTE 880 Foundations for Inquiry (3 credits)Description: This seminar course introduces students to the basic concepts, terminology, and contexts of inquiry in art education. Students learn about the practice of systematic inquiry, including: identifying and articulating a topic or question; situating the inquiry within a theoretical framework; relating the inquiry to art education practices; and selecting appropriate inquiry procedures. Each student develops a proposal for a small-scale project related to their particular art education interests.Component(s): SeminarARTE 882 Research Practice (3 credits)Description: A seminar course in which students conduct a small scale research project based on their own research proposal.Component(s): SeminarARTE 883 Comprehensive Examination (0 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: Students must complete a minimum of 21 course credits prior to enrolling.Description: Each student must pass a comprehensive examination composed of written and oral components. The examination assesses the student’s competence in the field of Art Education. The student must pass this exam in order to continue in the program. A Student Guide to the Comprehensive Examination gives detailed information on the exam and is available from the department’s graduate programs office. Generally, one examination time is established each year, usually at the end of the winter term.Component(s): Thesis ResearchARTE 884 Doctoral Seminar (3 credits)Description: This course addresses research and communication, thesis writing, and professional practice.Component(s): SeminarARTE 890 Research and Thesis (63 credits)Description: Includes thesis proposal and its approval by the Thesis Advisory Committee, research (including any further study that may be required to gain needed expertise), written thesis and oral examination. A doctoral thesis is expected to make an original contribution to knowledge in the field of art education, and to be written in acceptable scholarly form. Students are encouraged to periodically present their research-in-progress to academic and professional audiences. For details on thesis procedures and format, see the relevant sections of this calendar and the Thesis Preparation Guide available from the School of Graduate Studies. In addition, Art Education Procedures for Doctoral Theses is available in the department’s graduate programs office.Component(s): Thesis Research Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy