Biology Courses Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/arts-and-science-courses/biology-courses.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 Academics 	 	  /  	 Graduate programs 	 	  /  	 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Winter 2022 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Arts and Science Courses 	 	  /  	 Biology Courses 	 Biology Courses Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Biotechnology and Genomics Graduate Diploma CoursesBIOL 510 Bioinformatics (3 credits)Description: This course provides students with instruction in the basic techniques of bioinformatics, computational biology and biological data science. There are three major goals. The first goal is to introduce common bioinformatic software, databases and tools for analyzing molecular data. The second, is to provide students with methods from computational biology to test hypotheses using programming techniques. The third, is to provide an introduction to methods from data science for exploring large biological data sets using visualization, statistics and machine learning. This course is conducted through lectures and computer laboratories.Component(s): Lecture; LaboratoryBIOL 511 Genome Structure (3 credits)Description: This course provides an overview of genome analysis including: cloning systems; sequencing strategies; methods of detecting genes and approaches to mapping genomes. It covers the theory and design of the different approaches, and the analysis of genomic data generated from them.Component(s): LectureBIOL 512 Functional Genomics (3 credits)Description: This course focuses on the functional analysis of expressed genes and their products. Course content includes transcription profiling using microarrays and RNA-Seq, systematic identification of proteins using mass spectrometry, functional analysis by gene knock-outs, localization of gene products by gene knock-ins, recombinant protein synthesis and protein-protein interactions using affinity co-purification and protein complementation assays.Component(s): LectureBIOL 515 Biotechnology and Genomics Laboratory (3 credits)Description: This is a hands-on course on techniques used in biotechnology and genomics. Experiments conducted in this course include separation and mapping of high molecular weight DNA fragments, shotgun sequencing, ESTs sequencing, protein production in bacteria and fungi, functional analysis of protein products, protein arrays, and in vivo detection of protein interactions.Component(s): Tutorial; LaboratoryNotes:This course incurs an additional fee to cover laboratory supplies and equipment.BIOL 516 Project in Biotechnology and Genomics (6 credits)Description: Each student conducts a project under the supervision of a faculty member at Concordia or other research institutions affiliated with the program. The project topic requires approval by the course coordinator. The project is taken over an 8-month (10 hours per week) period at Concordia or other approved institutions or companies. The project is chosen from one or more of the following fields: biotechnology, genomics, bioinformatics, cell/molecular biology, synthetic biology and high-throughput experimentation. The nature of the project can be research, development, or application. A student who is working full- time or part-time can pursue the project in his/her place of employment subject to approval. (Approval is only given to projects which are clearly demonstrated to be independent of the regular work requirement). At the end of the project, the student is required to submit a report on the results of the project and present the results publicly in the form of a scientific poster or a short talk at a scheduled Genomics/Biotechnology Research Day.Component(s): LectureNotes:A student who is working full-time or part-time can pursue the project in his/her place of employment subject to approval. (Approval will only be given to projects which are clearly demonstrated to be independent of the regular work requirement).BIOL 521 Industrial and Environmental Biotechnology (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: BIOL 511; BIOL 512. Description: This course provides an in-depth evaluation of current biotechnology tools used in pharmaceutical and forestry industries, and in environmental remediation. New technologies and genomic approaches that can be applied to these processes are also discussed.Component(s): LectureBIOL 523 Agriculture and Agri-Food Biotechnology (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: BIOL 511; BIOL 512. Description: This course provides an overview on the use of biotechnology in agriculture and in the agri-food industry. Plant genomics and genetic manipulation of plants are emphasized. Also discussed are biotechnology methods used in reducing agricultural pollutants and converting agricultural surplus to energy.Component(s): LectureBIOL 524 High-throughput Instrumentation (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: BIOL 511; BIOL 512. Description: This is a hands-on introduction to high-throughput instruments used in biotechnology and genomics. Students are exposed to capillary electrophoresis-based DNA sequencing, microplate-based PCR reactions and purification of PCR products, construction of DNA chips, microarray scanning, and liquid handling robotics.Component(s): LectureNotes:Enrolment in this course is restricted to ten students.BIOL 525 Biological Computing and Synthetic Biology (3 credits)Description: This is an interdisciplinary course offered to students who are either in Biology or Electrical and Computer Engineering programs. Students are introduced to the emerging field of synthetic biology and learn to design computational machines that can be implemented in biological media. The term is divided into two phases. In Phase I, Biology students learn basic computer hardware and software concepts, while Engineering students are introduced to gene structure and recombinant DNA technology. In Phase II, all students learn the principles and various applications of cell-based computational machines. Students work in teams to create a project proposal to describe the design of a computational machine using gene regulatory networks. A project is required.Component(s): LectureNotes:Students who have received credit for COEN 6211 or for this topic under a BIOL 631 or COEN 691 number may not take this course for credit.PHIL 530 Ethical, Legal, and Social Implications of Biotechnology (3 credits)Description: This interdisciplinary course examines some of the ethical, legal, and social implications of recent developments in biotechnology, genomics, and bioinformatics. Students explore current debates about biotechnologies in the fields of agricultural biotechnology, global development, and environmental risk. Issues such as commercialization and intellectual property, the role of media and public perceptions of biotechnologies, and social responsibility and policy formation are also addressed.Component(s): LectureBiology MSc and PhD Advanced Topics and Reading CoursesBIOL 601 Readings in Ecology and Behaviour I (3 credits)Component(s): LectureBIOL 602 Readings in Cell and Molecular Biology I (3 credits)Component(s): LectureBIOL 606 Readings in Organismal Biology I (3 credits)Component(s): ReadingBIOL 607 Readings in Ecology and Behaviour II (3 credits)Component(s): ReadingBIOL 608 Readings in Cell and Molecular Biology II (3 credits)Component(s): ReadingBIOL 609 Readings in Organismal Biology II (3 credits)Component(s): ReadingBIOL 612 Advanced Topics in Evolution (3 credits)Component(s): Lecture; ReadingBIOL 613 Advanced Topics in Behavioural Ecology (3 credits)Component(s): Lecture; TutorialBIOL 614 Advanced Topics in Ecology (3 credits)Component(s): TutorialBIOL 615 Advanced Topics in Animal Biology (3 credits)Component(s): ReadingBIOL 616 Current Advances in Ecological Research (3 credits)Description: This course is given in alternate years and reviews selected areas of current research in ecology, evolution and behaviour through critical analysis of recent publications. Topics vary from year to year, and are determined in part by the interests of the students. Material covered may include papers published in refereed journals, monographs or books on specialized topics, or new textbooks covering advanced topics in a relevant area. Students are responsible for giving class presentations of selected material, leading class discussions, and submitting critiques and answers to assigned essay questions. Grading is based upon class participation, oral presentations and written work.Component(s): Lecture; ReadingBIOL 622 Advanced Techniques in Ecology (3 credits)Description: This course introduces students to a variety of techniques of experimental design, data collection, and quantitative analysis. Students participate in a series of modules, each of which presents experimental and analytical techniques appropriate for one area of modern research in ecology, behaviour, or evolution. Some modules require students to collect and subsequently analyze original data from field or laboratory settings. Modules and their contents may vary from year to year.Component(s): Tutorial; LaboratoryNotes:This course corresponds with undergraduate course BIOL 450 . It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. BIOL 623 Advanced Applied Ecology and Conservation (3 credits)Description: This course applies principles of ecology at the individual, population, community and ecosystem level to identify and solve practical environmental problems. Topics include pollution, climate change, and farming, harvesting renewable resources, designing nature reserves and conserving bio-diversity.Component(s): Lecture; TutorialNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 624 Advances in Decomposer Communities and Nutrient Cycling (3 credits)Description: This course examines the role of the microbial community in the fundamental processes of decomposition and nutrient cycling. We discuss the role of microbes in the breakdown of organic molecules and the release and transformation of mineral elements. Emphasis is placed on the interactions between decomposition and on the interactions between bacteria, fungi, and the microbes in the maintenance of nutrient cycles.Component(s): Lecture; LaboratoryNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 630 Advanced Topics in Bioinformatics (3 credits)Component(s): Lecture; LaboratoryBIOL 631 Advanced Topics in Biotechnology (3 credits)Component(s): LectureBIOL 632 Advanced Topics in Cell Biology (3 credits)Component(s): LectureBIOL 633 Advanced Immunology (3 credits)Description: The role of the immune system in maintenance of body homeostasis will be presented with particular reference to cells and tissues of the immune system, their organization as well as their structural and functional relationships. Topics include: maturation and differentiation of B and T lymphocytes; structure and properties of antibodies; immune responses to antigens; genetic aspects of antibody synthesis; immunological considerations in AIDS, cancer, and autoimmune diseases.Component(s): Lecture; SeminarNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 634 Advanced Cell Biology (3 credits)Description: Lectures dealing with selected topics in mammalian cell biology. These include introduction to the elements of cell biology. Introduction to the elements of cell culture with reference to the growth and function of non-differentiated and differentiated cells. Control of cell cycling under normal and abnormal states, mechanisms of peptide and steroid hormone action with emphasis on intracellular signaling pathways. The control of gene transcription and detailed analysis of the effect of host cell factors on virus replication.Component(s): LectureNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 635 Advanced Topics in Molecular Genetics (3 credits)Component(s): LectureBIOL 640 Advanced Topics in Plant Biology (3 credits)Component(s): LectureBIOL 660 Advanced Plant Biochemistry (3 credits)Description: Biochemical study of the natural constituents and secondary metabolites unique to plants. Their biosynthesis, biotransformations, and functions in plants, as well as their economic and pharmacologic importance are stressed.Component(s): LectureNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 661 Advanced Tissue Culture (3 credits)Description: This course looks at plant-growth regulators, nutritional requirements, and other factors necessary for in-vitro culturing of plant cells and tissues. The course also discusses methods available for nuclear transfers and the propagation of transformed plants.Component(s): LectureNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 670 Scientific Communication (3 credits)Description: This course is offered every other year and is open to all graduate students in Biology or by special permission from the instructor. It is designed to present the requirements for publishable scientific writing, successful research proposals and the presentation of oral papers at scientific meetings. The course emphasizes good writing habits, focuses on the importance of thought, the conciseness of statements and clarity of exposition. The course combines lectures, group discussions, workshops and oral presentations. Marks are based on a number of written assignments, oral presentations as well as participation in class.Component(s): LectureBIOL 671 Scanning Electron Microscopy (3 credits)Description: This course is given alternate years in the Summer session and explains both the theory and practice of instrumentation and methodology. Students learn to operate the Scanning Electron Microscope (Séminaire.) and ancillary equipment such as sputter-coater and the critical point drier. Hands-on learning experience is stressed to acquire familiarity with special techniques. Instructions cover three aspects: instrumentation, specimen preparation (fixation and drying), and specimen mounting and coating.Component(s): Tutorial; LaboratoryNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 680 Advanced Topics in Biology (3 credits)Component(s): Lecture; LaboratoryBIOL 685 Advanced Topics in Microbiology (3 credits)Component(s): LectureBIOL 687 Advanced Molecular Genetics (3 credits)Description: This course concentrates on basic microbial and molecular genetics, introducing isolation and characterization of mutants, methods of mapping mutants, transposons, episomes, and recombinant DNA techniques.Component(s): Lecture; ConferenceNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 688 Advances in Biological Regulatory Mechanisms (3 credits)Description: This course examines the molecular basis of the control of metabolic pathways with an emphasis on procaryote systems. The course concentrates on the analysis of the rationale of experimentation used to elucidate these regulatory mechanisms.Component(s): Lecture; ConferenceNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 689 Advanced Techniques in Molecular Biology (3 credits)Description: Theory and practice of modern experimental procedures of molecular biology, including use of restriction enzymes, gene cloning, and hybridizations, DNA sequencing, site-directed mutagenesis, and the use of bacteria and phage in biotechnology.Component(s): Lecture; LaboratoryNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.BIOL 690 Advanced Gene Structure (3 credits)Description: This course deals with gene regulation in eukaryotes. Topics covered include transcription, transcript processing, translation, and post-translational processes.Component(s): LectureNotes:This course corresponds with an undergraduate course description. It is understood that an instructor who grants written permission to register in the course as a graduate student will require extra work from the students for graduate credit. This course is open to doctoral students only under exceptional circumstances.Biology Thesis, Research, Qualifying Exam and Pedagogical Training CoursesBIOL 696 Master’s Research and Thesis (36 credits)Component(s): Thesis ResearchBIOL 801 Pedagogical training (3 credits)Description: Candidates are required to give four lectures (normally 75 minutes each) to undergraduate classes. Two lectures are in introductory level courses and two in advanced undergraduate courses. Tutorials are provided to introduce students to teaching methods.Component(s): LectureNotes:The course is marked on a pass/fail basis.BIOL 802 Research seminar (3 credits)Description: Students are required to give one seminar to the Department based upon their research project. Normally the seminar is given in the second or third years of residency. The grade is based upon the presentation, content, and the student’s ability to answer questions. The grade is assigned by the Graduate Program Director in consultation with the candidate’s supervisory committee and other faculty members present at the seminar.Component(s): LectureNotes:Seminars are graded on a standard scale (A+ to F).BIOL 850 Research proposal and qualifying exam (6 credits)Description: The student prepares a written research proposal based upon the research topic chosen for thesis research. The proposal is prepared in consultation with the supervisory committee and contains a literature review, a progress report and a detailed description of future experiments. The proposal should demonstrate a good understanding of the background of the project, the questions to be answered, and the experimental approaches needed to answer these questions. Both the written proposal and an oral summary of the proposal are presented to the examining committee within one year of entry into the PhD program. The examining committee consists of the student's supervisory committee plus two additional members of the Department of Biology and is chaired by the Graduate Program Director. The student is evaluated on the basis of the quality of the oral and written presentations of the proposal and on responses to questions from the examining committee. These questions extend into general areas as well as focusing directly on the thesis topic.Component(s): LectureNotes:The examining committee assigns one of the following three grades: 1) PASS: The student is admitted to candidacy for a PhD in Biology; 2) CONDITIONAL PASS: The student is admitted to candidacy but is required to complete at least one additional course. This grade is assigned only if the background preparation of the student is judged to be insufficient; 3) FAIL: The student must withdraw from the program. If the examining committee judges that the proposal has weaknesses that can be corrected with minor revisions, it may suspend assigning a mark for a period not exceeding three months. The revised proposal then is assigned one of the three above grades.BIOL 890 Research and Thesis (75 credits)Description: A major portion of the PhD program involves the planning and execution of innovative and original research under the direction of a supervisor. It is expected that this research should result in publication in reputable journals, on which the candidate is the first author and the major contributor of ideas and experimental data. The thesis will be examined by a Thesis Examining Committee and will be defended orally.Component(s): Lecture; Thesis Research Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy