Breaking news for the last 12 months | Société de transport de Montréal Go to main content Go to search field Go to level 1 main menu Go to this page sub-menu Go to additionnal content Quick links Level 1 Quick links Level 2 Société de transport de Montréal Société de transport de Montréal Menu Getting around Fares Getting around Useful info Networks Métro Bus - Schedules Shared taxibus See all Service updates Métro service updates Bus service updates STM Works See all Fares Download current fare schedule (PDF) OPUS cards and other fare media Transit fares See all Customer service Contact us After-sales services in stations Lost and found See all Advice for passengers The handy guide to reconnection Ways to view bus schedules Métro service disruptions See all Rules and safety Rules and regulations Travelling safely Statements of offence and fines See all Universal accessibility Universal access Elevator access to the métro Corporate policy of universal accessibililty See all To Useful info Paratransit Reserving online with SIRTA See all Contact us See all About Paratransit What is paratransit? Paratransit customer service Paratransit history See all Admission OPUS ID Card Visitors Eligibility criteria See all Using paratransit Automated reminders Operating hours Area served See all Titles and fares Download the Paratransit fare schedule effective July 1, 2021 (PDF) FAQ - fares and fare control Fares and Fare media accepted by Transport adapté See all Tips and guidelines Lost and found Notifications Preparing for trips See all Forms See all To Paratransit Offers and outings Sooo Montréal Sooo hockey See all Boutique STM See all Newsletters Discover our newsletter Society in Motion See all To Offers and outings About Discover the STM and its history Art in the network History The STM's podcasts See all Major projects Major metro projects Major bus projects Completed major projects See all Financial and Corporate Information About the STM Organisational Strategic Plan 2025 Performance indicators See all Corporate governance Board of directors Board committees Board members See all Surveys and consultations Public consultations Join your voice See all Business zone Commercial activities Groups Partnerships and permissions See all Developers Available data description Terms of Use See all To About Our new mobile site FAQ Contact us Jobs Business zone Press room Ma STM Français Search within this site Breaking news for the last 12 months Press room All the news Press releases News Elsewhere on the web Media resources Subscribe to email alerts src="https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=2351636091529633&ev=PageView &noscript=1"/> December 1 2021 Update from STM on Le Boulevard remaining open for the next few years The STM wishes to remind local residents and mall customers that the Boulevard shopping centre will remain open for the next few years, during the construction of the future station at Pie-IX. News November 30 2021 STM begins passenger testing for new electric buses Some lucky clients will have the opportunity to get on board some of the STM's new long range electric buses during a new testing phase. News November 29 2021 Universal Accessibility: Viau becomes 19th accessible station On November 30th, the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) will commission the new elevators at Viau station, making it the 19th station in the métro network to be made accessible, in an area with great potential as a tourist destination due to the nearby Olympic Park and Space for Life facilities. News November 29 2021 Pie-IX BRT: Second-last phase of the project ends December 6 with commissioning still planned for 2022 December 6, 2021, marks the end of the latest phase of the integrated Pie-IX BRT project, with closed lanes reopening and bus lines 41, 139 and 439 returning to Pie-IX boulevard. News November 25 2021 Aide supplémentaire - La STM salue la réponse du gouvernement du Québec (French only) La Société de transport de Montréal (STM) se réjouit de l’annonce d’une aide supplémentaire au transport collectif par le gouvernement du Québec. News November 25 2021 STM holiday sweaters back by popular demand The STM holiday sweater is back! News November 22 2021 STM and SPVM present winter plan in preparation for cold weather Press release November 22 2021 Outremont métro station closed January 10 to August 19, 2022 : Shuttle service will mitigate impact of closure Due to the major renovation project and accessibility updates at Outremont station, the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) will have to close the station from January 10 to August 19, 2022, inclusive. Press release November 18 2021 Bus network redesign: STM announces next public consultation session by sector In the Côte-Saint-Luc–Hampstead–Montréal-Ouest–Notre-Dame-de-Grâce sector News November 16 2021 STM presents the conclusion of the independent investigation report on the April 17 incident Press release November 11 2021 Pie-IX BRT: Installation of a 70 pieces work of art The Pie-IX BRT project office has begun installing artwork in two of the bus shelter wall panels in Laval along the 13 kilometre route of the bus rapid transit service. News November 10 2021 STM announces gradual return of the métro musicians The STM announces its plan for a safe and progressive return of the métro musicians. Press release November 10 2021 The STM announces the implementation of bus and taxi priority measures on Saint-Jacques Street News November 9 2021 STM and partners win Rail Security Gold Award for Heavy Rail from the American Public Transportation Association (APTA) Press release November 5 2021 Universal Accessibility priorities : Commissioning of elevators at Préfontaine station and revamped Universal Accessibility website section The Société de transport de Montréal (STM) is continuing in its commitment to Universal Accessibility in its network with an 18th accessible métro station and a new easier-to-read website section on Universal Accessibility that provides trip-planning tools for customers with functional limitations. News October 28 2021 The STM announces the implementation of bus and taxi priority measures on Saint-Joseph Boulevard News October 26 2021 Recognition in project management: STM named finalist in PMI-Montréal Élixir contest Press release October 14 2021 The STM announces the implementation of bus and taxi priority measures on Robert-Bourassa Blvd News October 6 2021 The STM is the recipient of three awards from the Canadian Urban Transit Association Mr Philippe Schnobb earned an Excellence Award, and the STM received the Safety and Security Award for their Métro intervention and cooperation team (MICT) and the Innovation Award for its paratransit service project, Extra Connecte. Press release September 30 2021 STM tests new shared taxibus app (MUVE) in Senneville Testing new reservation app for its shared taxibus service in the areas of Senneville and Saint-Anne-de-Bellevue (Sainte-Marie neighbourhood) Press release September 29 2021 Côte-Vertu garage project awarded the highest distinction in sustainable development for major infrastructure projects The Société de transport de Montréal (STM) was awarded a Platinum Envision recognition for the Côte-Vertu garage project, a first in Canada for a public transit project. Press release September 28 2021 Rapport du Bureau de l’inspecteur général de la Ville de Montréal : la STM a pris action dès la fin 2020 (French only) News September 8 2021 STM launches a public artwork competition for McGill station Professional artists in Quebec are invited to submit their applications no later than October 8, 2021, at 4 p.m. News August 31 2021 Smoother, more reliable and more efficient: The STM presents its 2021-2025 reserved lanes network vision In the usual order, Mr. Luc Tremblay, Chief Executive Officer of the STM, M. Philippe Schnobb, Chair of the STM Board of Directors, Mme Valérie Plante, Montréal mayor Valérie Plante, and M. Eric Alan Caldwell, City of Montréal executive committee member responsible for mobility- Photo credit : Louis-Étienne Doré, photographer Press release August 19 2021 Côte-Vertu garage project : Côte-Vertu reopens August 23 On August 23, the Société de transport de Montréal will reopen Côte-Vertu station, closed since May 29 for the installation of a track switch ahead of the station. Installing this switch will allow us to increase train frequency by up to 25% on the Orange line at peak periods. News August 16 2021 STM announces service improvements for workers in the Côte-de-Liesse area Route changes to lines 460 Express Métropolitaine and 100 Crémazie, effective August 23. Press release August 16 2021 The STM announces implementation of bus and taxi priority measures along the Saint-Michel corridor News July 21 2021 STM presents first unit of special constables of the Security and control department The swearing in of the first unit of special constables with Marie-Claude Léonard, Executive Director of the Metro network, and Jocelyn Latulippe, Director of Safety and Control. Press release July 13 2021 Pie-IX BRT : Upcoming work completion in Laval The integrated Pie-IX BRT project office is announcing that the work in Laval will be completed by the end of July. News July 8 2021 The Défi STM surpasses its goal and donates over $22,000 to four charitable organizations Participants travelled a total of 39,000 kilometres, a distance equivalent to 580 times the length of the Société de Transport de Montréal’s métro network. News June 30 2021 STM among best corporate citizens in Canada Corporate Knights, a magazine focused on sustainability, has included again this year the STM in a select group of Canadian enterprises that stand out thanks to their exemplary responsible practices. In a ranking released today, the STM is ranked twelfth among the Best 50 Corporate Citizens in Canada. The STM is the only passenger transportation enterprise to make the list. News June 22 2021 STM tests new electric minibus for paratransit The STM proudly annouces that it will bgein testing on a new electric minibus for paratransit. Press release June 21 2021 La Fabrique culturelle et la STM s’unissent pour faire connaître les stations du métro de Montréal, tellement artistiques! (French only) La STM et la Fabrique culturelle s'allient, dans le cadre de la campagne Montréalité, pour inciter les Montréalais à partir à la découverte de leurs stations de métro, tellement artistiques! News June 17 2021 Fare adjustments as of July 1, 2021 Series of measures to encourage the use of public transit News June 14 2021 The STM deploys a bus in Montréal Canadiens colours The STM is showing its support for the Habs by deploying on its network a bus specially made up for the occasion. News June 10 2021 Fin du port du masque de procédure par les chauffeurs (English coming soon) La CNESST ne recommande plus le port du masque de procédure pour les chauffeurs de bus de la STM lorsqu'ils sont au volant. News June 7 2021 STM launches a public artwork competition for Pie-IX station Professional artists in Quebec are invited to submit their applications no later than July 5, 2021, at 4 p.m. News May 31 2021 The STM has you covered for your Montréal outings this summer "The STM: Sooo Montréal" campaign is launched this week News May 26 2021 Defibrillators now accessible across the métro network STM teams recently finished equipping the full métro network with automated external defibrillators (AED) after several weeks of installation work. The defibrillators are operational and ready for use. News May 25 2021 L’Itinéraire vendors – Familiar faces returning to the métro The STM is pleased to announce that, starting today, L’Itinéraire magazine vendors will be returning to selected métro stations for a pilot project. News May 21 2021 The STM welcomes the appointment of Mr. Éric Alan Caldwell as a member of its board of directors Appointment of Mr. Éric Alan Caldwell as a member of the board of the STM News May 19 2021 Blue line extension – Preparatory work to come in the Lacordaire area The STM will be undertaking preparatory work on the Blue line extension in the Lacordaire/Jean-Talon area and invites citizens, businesses and other concerned invididuals to be prepared. Press release May 14 2021 STM launches new outreach campaign to encourage bus-bike road sharing In collaboration with the City of Montréal, the STM is launching a new summer outreach campaign to encourage better bus-bike road sharing News May 12 2021 STM launches challenge combining public transit, physical activity and exploring the city The STM, with the support of Canada Running Series (CRS), is launching its very first Défi STM to entice Montrealers to go out more, explore their city and use public transit.. Press release May 4 2021 Ensemble, gardons le moral! (French only) La STM profite de la Semaine de la santé mentale soulignée du 3 au 9 mai 2021 pour faire un rappel de quelques ressources existantes. News April 30 2021 The STM and its partners report positive results for the 2020-2021 winter plan in the métro network The STM, the OBM, the SDS and the SPVM are reporting positive results for the 2020-2021 winter plan announced last fall - Photo credit : Mission Old Brewery/Christian Blais Press release April 28 2021 Pie-IX BRT: Major work in the Jean-Talon area The integrated Pie-IX BRT project will continue in the Pie-IX Boulevard/Jean-Talon Street area, with the construction of a pedestrian tunnel connecting the Pie-IX BRT and the future métro station of the Blue line extension. News April 22 2021 Bus network redesign: STM announces next public consultation sessions by sector Two virtual information sessions will be held in 2021 Press release April 21 2021 Intervention at Jean-Talon station: The STM will appoint an independent expert in police ethics The Board of Directors of the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) is aware of the unique nature of the images that are being shared of the intervention that took place at Jean-Talon station on April 17 and responds to the concerns expressed by the public by calling on Marco Gaggino, a lawyer specializing in police ethics, who will act as an independent expert to support the STM. The latter will audit the preliminary conclusions of the internal investigation. Press release April 19 2021 STM provides clarification on intervention at Jean-Talon station The STM would like to make several clarifications in light of the recently uploaded video showing an intervention by security and enforcement inspectors that occurred on Saturday, April 17 at Jean-Talon station. As is often the case with these types of videos, the footage does not depict the event in its entirety and excludes the events that led to the intervention. News April 13 2021 Côte-Vertu garage project: Côte-Vertu station to close from May 29 to August 22 for track switch installation As part of the Côte-Vertu garage project, the Société de transport de Montréal must close Côte-Vertu station from May 29 to August 22, inclusive, in order to install a track switch ahead of the station. This switch will increase train frequency by up to 25% on the Orange line at peak periods. Mitigation measures will be implemented to minimize inconveniences caused by the station closure. Press release April 9 2021 Dès lundi, le port du masque de procédure sera exigé aux chauffeurs de la STM (English coming soon) À compter de lundi le 12 avril, la STM requerra de ses chauffeurs de porter le masque de procédure lorsqu’ils sont au volant, à la demande de la CNESST. News April 8 2021 STM presents its 2020 Annual Report a year filled with challenges Following the adoption of the document by the Board of Directors, the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) is marking the end of a truly extraordinary year with the publication of its 2020 Annual Report. The Report details three major crises: the out-of-service bus issue, the COVID-19 pandemic and the October cyber attack on the company. Press release April 1 2021 STM awarded Rights and Freedoms Award by the Commission des droits de la personne et des droits de la jeunesse This considerable acknowledgement is the culmination of 33 years of persistent efforts to recruit and retain a diverse workforce - On the photo : Alain Brière, Executive Director, Human Resources at STM - Photo credit : Pamela Lajeunesse/CDPDJ Press release March 30 2021 Merci M. Trent La STM salue la contribution de Peter Trent aux travaux de son conseil d'administration et au transport collectif en général. News March 30 2021 STM presents a musical journey, conjuring up good memories of public transit through major historic milestones A a playlist as a fun way to remind its customers of how the bus and métro networks have always inspired Montrealers and brightened their days Press release March 25 2021 STM announces customer-focused shift with new strategic approach for security and control inspectors Our new vision aims to build a rapport between our inspectors and our customers and allow inspectors to do more to improve the quality of customers’ trips - From left to right: Pénélope Toupin, Inspector, Anick Lavoie, Inspector, Jocelyn Latulippe, Director, Security and Control, Philippe Schnobb, Chair of the STM Board of Directors, and Francis Turmel, Inspector. Crédit photos : Mission Old Brewery, Christian Blais Press release March 25 2021 New Richelieu mechanical ventilation station: STM begins public consultation process In spring 2022, the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) will begin construction on a new mechanical ventilation station at the corner of Richelieu and Sainte-Marguerite, in the Sud-Ouest borough. In order to open a dialogue on the project with the local community, the STM will hold a public consultation beginning March 30. News March 24 2021 A year of lockdown: The STM is still on the job Since today marks a year of lockdown in Quebec, the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) wanted to commemorate all the work done by its employees, who remained on the job to provide ongoing public transit service in Montréal. News March 17 2021 March 18: A special day to celebrate the service of transit drivers and operators! The STM invites its client to join the global movement and say "thank you" to its bus drivers and métro operators on the Transit Driver Appreciation Day on March 18. News March 11 2021 March 11: The STM is with you wholeheartedly On Quebec’s first National day of remembrance for victims of COVID-19, the Société de transport de Montréal (STM) will pay homage to the memory of the victims by stopping all métro trains at 1 p.m. for a moment of silence. A message of sympathy will be played on loudspeakers in the métro network and on STM buses. News March 8 2021 My voice my STM: The STM wants your opinion! Pineapple juice powered buses? Customer opinions are no joke! Today, the Société de transport de Montréal is launching a new ad campaign to recruit customers to sign up for the My voice my STM panel and share their opinions on public transit in Greater Montréal. News March 4 2021 Pie-IX BRT: Work phase 3 beginning March 22 The integrated Pie-IX BRT project office will begin phase 3 of the project on March 22. Press release March 1 2021 All Montréal métro stations to be equipped with defibrillators Automated external defibrillators will be installed in all métro stations over the following weeks. Press release February 24 2021 STM 2020 generosity campaign ends in success STM employees and retirees once again showed incredible generosity during the annual fundraising campaign. News February 3 2021 300 new buses :STM reaches a new milestone in bus fleet expansion strategy The Société de transport de Montréal (STM) has reached a new milestone in its plan to add 300 buses to its fleet with the completion of expansion work on the Legendre bus garage, which will soon house 56 of the new buses. Press release January 28 2021 STM celebrates 40 years of Transport adapté An invitation for the clientele to take part in a virtual celebration beginning tomorrow Press release January 27 2021 Blue line extension – Naming committee begins work The STM implements a naming committee for the blue line extension, tasked with proposing names for the future stations of the extended section. Press release January 8 2021 New lockdown measures – STM update Bus and métro networks and paratransit service will remain accessible and the STM will maintain its service offer during the new lockdown period beginning on January 9. Press release December 10 2020 Adaptation of four bus garages - The STM’s electrification strategy takes a big step forward The STM applauds the authorization of a $671.4 million loan by-law alllowing the complete electrification of the four first bus garages. Press release December 7 2020 STM: Sauvé/Côte-Vertu BRT commissioning set for mid-December The Société de transport de Montréal (STM) is announcing the commissioning of the Sauvé/Côte-Vertu bus rapid transit (BRT) service for mid-December. Press release December 3 2020 Montreal’s metro now fully connected to the mobile network With the support of Bell, Rogers, TELUS and Vidéotron, the STM has improved the commuter experience and created the largest digital indoor network in Canada Press release Follow STM Twitter STM RSS feeds Email alerts All the news Last 7 days Last 30 days Last 12 months Quick links My voice my STM surveys Universal Accessibility Ways for viewing bus schedules Work underway Customer service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Linkedin © STM 1997-2021 Bus network Metro Network Legal Notices Developers Web Accessibility Site Plan Keep in touch