Center of Excellence | Hydro-Québec Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu Center of Excellence in Transportation Electrification and Energy Storage Contact us Français Menu Home About us Solid-electrolyte batteries Research areas Partnerships Publications Patents News Reinventing energy for the future Hydro-Québec’s Center of Excellence in Transportation Electrification and Energy Storage 									Hydro-Québec’s Center of Excellence in Transportation Electrification and Energy Storage is a world-class innovation hub in the field of battery materials for electric vehicles and other energy storage applications, both stationary and mobile. 								 Solid-electrolyte batteries We are at the leading edge of solid-electrolyte battery development worldwide. Our research has lead to patented solutions that will be used to build a battery that is safer, more efficient, more durable, and both easier and less costly to build and to recycle. Discover our major breakthroughs 									The Center’s efforts are focused on advanced lithium‑ion batteries and solid‑state batteries. Its know‑how, impressive intellectual property portfolio and leading‑edge facilities draw 									interest from around the world and make it an essential partner for major industry players involved in the development of tomorrow’s battery materials and technologies. 								 Video: Battery manufacturing process Length : 12 minutes 56 seconds 40+ years of innovation 								 100+ patent families 								 60+ licences granted 								 250+ scientific publications 								 Transportation electrification 									The electric and plug-in hybrid vehicle market will really take off when high-performance batteries that are both affordable and safe become widely available. That’s why the Center of Excellence devotes considerable effort to developing efficient, cost-effective technologies that will increase the capacity of tomorrow’s batteries without compromising their safety. 								 Our technologies combine performance, vehicle range and safety Find out more about our technologies 									Our goal is to develop safe battery technology that significantly extends the range of electric vehicles. 								 Energy storage 									In today’s connected world with its ever-growing energy needs, batteries are becoming more and more essential in everything from smartphones to power grids of all sizes. 								 Working with our power system experts, the Center’s battery materials R&D team has developed some of the world’s most advanced technologies to meet both small- and large‑scale energy storage needs. Small- and large‑scale energy storage solutions Find out more about our solutions 									The Center of Excellence is working on a broad range of energy storage applications: not only large-scale ones, like firming intermittent renewables on power grids, but also small-scale 									ones like smartphone batteries. 								 Back to top. Important links Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996-2021. All rights reserved.