Class action – Administration charges | Hydro-Québec Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu Français YouTube Facebook Instagram Twitter Français Class action regarding administration charges Are you eligible for a credit? Further to a class action regarding administration charges (C.S.M. 500‑06‑00461‑091), Hydro‑Québec and the complainant have agreed to an out-of-court settlement, even though the court ruled in Hydro‑Québec’s favor in this matter. You may be eligible for a credit if you were responsible for a contract and you paid administration charges billed during the period in question (from January 1, 2008, to April 30, 2010). Administration charges If your payment is late, in whole or in part, Hydro‑Québec applies administration charges to the unpaid portion of your bill. These charges are calculated using the interest rate in effect on the due date, from that date until your payment is received. Credit request period (June 4 to September 6, 2021) The period has ended. We will be analyzing and processing requests in the coming weeks. If you are eligible for the credit, it will be applied to one of your bills or you will receive a cheque in the mail, as applicable, beginning early 2022. Credit for eligible customers The settlement amounts to approximately $12.6 million and will be divided on a prorated basis among customers who paid administration charges for the period in question. These customers will receive a percentage of the charges they paid based on the number of eligible individuals and the total charges paid during the period. Median reimbursement to which you may be entitled The credit will be calculated based on a percentage of the total administration charges billed during the period in question, namely from January 1, 2008, to April 30, 2010, and subsequently paid. Credit amount for information purposes only and subject to change based on the terms of the settlement and the number of eligible customers Total administration charges paid that were billed during the period in question Credit estimate $15 Between $1.50 and $2.70 (a cheque will not be issued for an amount less than $2) $80 Between $8 and $14 $500 Between $50 and $90 Who is eligible for the credit? If you paid administration charges billed between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010, you may be eligible for a credit. Read the information that applies to your situation, your company’s situation or that of the person for whom you would like to request a credit According to the terms of the settlement approved by the court, you may be required to submit supporting documents. To learn more, refer to the FAQ section. Natural person (individual) You are still a Hydro‑Québec customer and there has been no change in the customer(s) responsible for the contract since January 1, 2008. You will receive a credit on your bill You don’t need to do anything. If you are entitled to a credit, the amount will be applied to one of your bills in early 2022. Please look at your bills carefully because the credit will only appear once under Settlement – Class action. Questions? Refer to the FAQ section. You are still a Hydro‑Québec customer but there has been at least one change in the customers responsible for the contract (addition or removal) since January 1, 2008. You may receive a cheque in the mail. If the bills were addressed to more than one person between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010, but you and the people in question are no longer jointly responsible for a Hydro‑Québec contract, or you have become solely responsible for the contract, you may be entitled to a credit by cheque. Given that the credit cannot be applied to your bill, you must provide us with an address where you would like to receive the cheque. The cheque will be made out to the people responsible for the contract during the period in question. However, if you have an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle your account. If the remaining amount exceeds $2, you will receive a cheque in the mail made out to all of the people responsible for the account. We will not issue a cheque for each person. Please fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, and confirm your current address so that we can send you a cheque, if applicable. You are no longer a Hydro‑Québec customer. You may receive a cheque in the mail. You may be eligible for a credit. However, if you have an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle your account. If the remaining amount exceeds $2, you will receive a cheque in the mail. Please confirm your current address so that we can send you a cheque, if applicable. There are different ways you can do this: Fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, and provide the address where you would like to receive the cheque, if applicable. If you are unable to provide us with your current address online, please contact customer services at 1 877 234-6548, access code 8332 (residential customers) or 8112 (business customers) to provide it to us over the phone. However, please note that this process takes longer by phone, particularly if the call volume is high. Once we have received your contact information and processed all requests made, we will determine the amount you may be entitled to, in accordance with the court-approved settlement. You will then receive a cheque in the mail if the amount exceeds $2 after any unpaid balance has been settled. Questions? Refer to the FAQ section. Before April 30, 2010, you were not a Hydro‑Québec customer. You are not eligible for the credit stipulated in the class action settlement agreement approved by the court. Only customers who paid administration charges billed between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010, are eligible. Legal person (corporation) You are duly authorized to act on behalf of a company that had more than 50 employees during the period in question. Companies with more than 50 employees are not eligible for the credit according to the terms of the court-approved settlement agreement. Questions? Refer to the FAQ section. You are duly authorized to act on behalf of a company that had no more than 50 employees during the period in question and that is still a customer. The company may receive a credit on its bill. According to the court-approved settlement agreement, a company with a contract that had no more than 50 employees during the period in question must fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021 and provide any information required to process the request. You need to demonstrate that you are an account manager, a mandatary or a person duly authorized to act on behalf of the company, confirm the service address and billing address during the period in question and the customer, account or contract number. You must also provide proof that no more than 50 employees worked for your company during the period in question. However, please note that, if the company’s legal status has changed, the company may not be eligible for a credit. You are duly authorized to act on behalf of a company that had no more than 50 employees during the period in question, but that no longer has a contract with Hydro‑Québec. This company may receive a cheque in the mail. Important: Please note that the cheque will be made out to the company responsible for the contract during the period in question. If the company’s legal status has changed, you must check with your financial institution or your trustee whether the cheque can be cashed. If there has been no change in the legal status, please fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, demonstrate that you are an account manager, a mandatary or a person who is duly authorized to act on behalf of the company and confirm the service address and the billing address during the period in question. You must also provide proof that no more than 50 employees worked for your company during the period in question. However, if the company has an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle the account. If the remaining amount exceeds $2, you will receive a cheque in the mail. Frequently asked questions About the class action Information about the class action A class-action lawsuit with the number C.S.M. 500-06-00461-091 was filed in February 2009 regarding the annual rate of Hydro‑Québec’s administration charges, which the complainant argued should have appeared directly on customer bills issued between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010. In November 2020, although the court ruled in Hydro‑Québec’s favor in this matter, Hydro‑Québec and the representative plaintiffs agreed to an out-of-court settlement. Further to the court’s approval, the parties agreed to fully and definitively settle their dispute and Hydro‑Québec committed to pay, in accordance with a distribution protocol, the settlement amount resulting from these claims. For any questions regarding the credit request process, please contact customer services at 1 877 234-6548, access code 8332 (residential customers) or 8112 (business customers) or the attorneys for the plaintiffs: PAQUETTE GADLER INC. 												353, Saint-Nicolas, bureau 200 												Montréal (Québec)  H2Y 2P1 												Telephone: 514 849-0771 												Fax: 514 849-4817 												www.paquettegadler.com 										 LLB AVOCATS S.E.N.C.R.L. 												201, Grande Allée Est 												Québec (Québec)  G1R 2H8 												Telephone: 418 692-6697 												Fax: 418 692-1108 												www.llbavocats.ca 											 Eligibility Who is eligible for the credit? Any eligible person or company who paid the administration charges billed between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010, and who provides the information or proof requested in the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, if applicable. You are still a Hydro‑Québec customer and there has been no change in the customer(s) responsible for the contract since January 1, 2008? If you are an individual, you may automatically receive a credit on one of your bills in early 2022, and you don’t need to do anything. You are still a Hydro‑Québec customer but there at least one change in the customers responsible for the contract (addition or removal) since January 1, 2008? If you are not sure who was listed as the person responsible for the contract, please check one of the bills associated with this contract. If the bills were addressed to more than one person during the period in question (from January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010), but you and the people in question are no longer jointly responsible for a Hydro‑Québec contract, or you or your business has become solely responsible for the contract, you may be entitled to a credit by cheque. Given that the amount cannot be credited to your bill, please provide an address where you would like to receive the cheque. However, if you have an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle your account. If the remaining amount exceeds $2, you will receive a cheque in the mail that is made out to all of the people who were responsible for that contract. We will not issue a cheque for each person. Please confirm your current address by filling out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, so that we can send you a cheque, if applicable. Are you no longer a customer? If you were responsible for a contract and you paid administration charges billed between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010, you may be eligible for a credit. To submit a request, please fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021. However, if you have an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle your account. If the remaining amount exceeds $2, you will receive a cheque in the mail. Please confirm your current address so that we can send you a cheque, if applicable. I would like to check if I paid administration charges billed during the period in question. How do I do that? If you kept one or more bills from the period in question (January 1, 2008, to April 30, 2010), you can check if you were billed administration charges. If you paid administration charges, we encourage you to fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021. If you are eligible for a credit but your file shows an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle your account. You will then receive a credit on your bill if you are still a customer or you will receive a cheque in the mail if the remaining amount exceeds $2. If you have always paid your bills by the due date, you would not have been billed any administration charges. As a result, you are not eligible for a credit. If you have not kept any of your bills and you have not always paid your bills by their due date, we encourage you to fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021. If you are eligible for a credit but your file shows an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle your account. You will then receive a credit on your bill if you are still a customer or you will receive a cheque in the mail if the remaining amount exceeds $2. I am a customer of a municipal system, not Hydro‑Québec. Am I entitled to a credit? No, only Hydro‑Québec customers who paid administration charges billed during the period in question (January 1, 2008, to April 30, 2010) are eligible for the credit. I am still a customer, but I have moved several times since January 1, 2008. Am I entitled to the credit? Yes, you may be eligible for a credit if you were an account holder during the period in question and you paid administration charges billed between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010. The credit will be automatically applied to one of your bills in early 2022. You don’t need to do anything. Terms and conditions Is the credit amount the same for everyone? No, the credit is proportional to the administration charges paid by each eligible person. Credit amount for information purposes only and subject to change based on the terms of the settlement and the number of eligible customers Total administration charges paid that were billed during the period in question Credit estimate $15 Between $1.50 and $2.70 (a cheque will not be issued for an amount less than $2) $80 Between $8 and $14 $500 Between $50 and $90 As an individual, will I receive a cheque? If you are responsible for a contract and you are eligible for a credit, you will not receive a cheque. The credit will be applied to one of your bills in early 2022. If you are no longer responsible for a contract or the people responsible for the contract changed since January 1, 2008, and your file shows an unpaid balance, all or some of the credit will be used to settle your account. If the remaining amount exceeds $2, you will receive a cheque in the mail. Please confirm your current address so that we can send you a cheque, if applicable. There are different ways you can do this: Fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, and provide the address where you would like to receive the cheque. 											 If you are not eligible, we will send you a notice confirming that according to the court-approved settlement agreement, you are not entitled to receive the credit. If your request is incomplete, we will contact you using the contact information you provided to request that you send us any information we need to process your request. If you are unable to provide us with your current address online, please contact customer services at 1 877 234-6548, access code 8332 (residential customers) or 8112 (business customers) to provide it to us over the phone. However, please note that this process takes longer by phone, particularly if the call volume is high. I owe Hydro‑Québec money or I have a payment arrangement. Will I receive a credit? If you have an unpaid balance and you do not have a payment arrangement with us, the credit will appear under Settlement – Class action and will be applied to the amount due. If you have a payment arrangement with us, the credit will appear under Settlement – Class action and will be applied to one of your installments. I received an electricity bill jointly with other people. Who will receive the credit? If you are no longer jointly responsible for a contract with this person or these people and if you are all eligible for a credit, you must fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, mand provide an address where you would like to receive the cheque, if applicable. The cheque will be made out to all of the people who were responsible for the contract. We will not issue a cheque for each person. If you are still jointly responsible for an account with these people, you don’t have to do anything. The credit will be applied to one of your bills in early 2022. I have several service contracts in the same account. How will the credit be applied? If you have several service contracts in the same account, we will calculate the credit for all of the service contracts. The total credit will appear on one of your bills in early 2022. How can I request the credit for a deceased person? If the deceased person’s estate still has an active contract, you don’t need to do anything. In this case, the credit will be automatically applied to that contract. In all other cases, supporting documents may be required. Given the many possible situations, please contact customer services at 1 877 234-6548, access code 8332 (residential customers) or 8112 (business customers). I was a Hydro‑Québec customer during the period in question (January 1, 2008, to April 30, 2010) and I paid administration charges billed during that period, but I have moved since then and the contract is no longer in my name. Will I receive a cheque? You may receive the credit by cheque. Fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, and provide the address where you would like to receive the cheque by mail. If you are not eligible, we will send you a notice confirming that, according to the court-approved settlement agreement, you are not entitled to receive the credit. If your request is incomplete, we will contact you or we will send you a notice requesting that you provide any information we need to process your request. If you receive such a notice, you will have 30 days to send us the information, after which your request will be rejected without further communication. If you are unable to provide us with your current address online, please contact customer services at 1 877 234-6548, access code 8332 (residential customers) or 8112 (business customers) to provide it to us over the phone. However, please note that this process takes longer by phone, particularly if the call volume is high. I received an email, a text message or a phone call from Hydro‑Québec requesting personal information. Do I need to comply with the request? Be careful! We will not ask you to provide personal information in response to an email or a text message. However, if you are no longer a Hydro‑Québec customer, we may need additional information to process your request, so we need to know the address where you would like to receive information regarding the credit, provided you are eligible. You may therefore receive a phone call asking you to confirm your address or to fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, on our website. If you are still a Hydro‑Québec customer, you do not need to send us any information. Businesses Will businesses also receive a credit? Yes, any business that had no more than 50 employees during the period in question and that paid administration charges billed between January 1, 2008, and April 30, 2010, could receive a credit. Businesses must fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, and attach the two supporting documents stipulated in the settlement agreement. Which two supporting documents do I need to attach to the form? Document proving that the business had no more than 50 employees during the period in question (January 1, 2008, to April 30, 2010) Document accepted: history of the number of employees according to the Registre des entreprises du Québec for the period in question. Document showing that you are an account manager, a mandatary or a person duly authorized to act on behalf of the business If you are unable to provide this evidence, please fill out the Solemn declaration [PDF 34 KB – in French only] form to attest to the information provided. My business declared bankruptcy. How can I request the credit? If your business declared bankruptcy during or after the period in question, you must verify with your trustee whether a cheque can be cashed. If the trustee informs you that it is possible, please fill out the Credit Request form by September 6, 2021, and provide your contact information as well as all the information regarding the trustee. If the trustee informs you that it is not possible, we cannot grant you a credit. Important links Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996-2021. All rights reserved.