Connect Concordia Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/success/futurebound/connect-concordia.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University Student Success Centre Events New students Expend Welcome Crew Mentors Orientation First-year support counselling Group activities and events for new students New student videos Learning services Expend Workshops Math- & science-based learning support Writing assistance Conversation sessions Handouts for learning & writing Learning Specialists Students in failed standing FutureBound Expend Career Development Communication & Digital Capabilities Innovation & Entrepreneurship Leadership & Collaboration Growth & Balance SkillXchange StartupReady Connect Concordia Career Planning Expend Career counselling and advising Career events and job fairs Job search resources Online job bank Résumés & cover letters What can I do with my degree in ... Alumni services Employer services Advocacy Expend Academic conduct Research conduct Academic requests Behavioural complaints Outreach support for faculty Commissioner of Oaths The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for... Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Student Success Centre CONNECT CONCORDIA Our mission is to bridge the gap between staff and students through a unique mutually-beneficial mentorship opportunity that allows for meaningful exchange. What is Connect Concordia? Connect Concordia is a student-led initiative that pairs a student and a staff member for a one-hour online meeting to give students a hands-on look at the behind-the-scenes of Concordia. This mentorship program allows you to dive into a day-in-the-life of a staff member at Concordia. Through our program we: Support students to develop their workplace literacy skills and experience a real-life work environment Facilitate an experience for students to build their professional communication skills through supportive relationships with staff Provide the opportunity for staff to gain insight into the student experience and the impact of their role within the university through exchange and feedback with students How it works 01 Applying Connect Concordia will be back in Winter 2022. The application form will be available in January 2022. Once your application is received, you will be contacted by the coordinator and paired with a staff member 02 Before the meeting Identify some goals and expectations you have for the experience. What do you want to learn from each other? For example, you may want to gain professional communcation skills, email writing skills, learn about the staff's specific workplace environment, etc.  Share these goals and expectations with the staff member you are paried with before the meeting to ensure there is a mutual understanding of how the meeting will go Write down questions you have for each other; you can take a look at our sample questions for ideas 03 During the meeting Reiterate what your goals and expectations are for the meeting. It's helpful if you both know what you want to get out of the experience This is also an opportunity for the staff member to learn about their impact on student life 04 After the meeting Please fill out the feedback form to help us improve the Connect Concordia program You have the option of staying connected with your mentor. Check in to see if they are willing to do so Fill out the feedback form Sample questions to ask staff members: How did you obtain the work position you are in now? What kind of career path did you take? Did you know what you wanted to do before graduating? What do you wish you knew in your last years of university? Are there parts of your job you want students to know about? What do you miss most about your job when it was in-person? How do you think you position impacts students? What is your mission within the university?   Sample questions to ask sudents: What was the path you took that brought you to Concordia? What stood out about Concordia, why did you choose to study here? Are you involved outside of the classroom? Was it easy (or was it not) to find ways to be involved in co-curriclar and extra-curricular activities? How has that changed with Concordia going online? Have you enjoyed your university career so far? What is the best part? What is the hardest part?   Our partnersThis program is in partnership with FutureBound and the Faculty of Arts and Science, and has previously been supported by CCSL and the Sustainability Action Fund.  Contact us Emily Andrews, Coordinator connect.concordia@concordia.ca Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 Learning Services New Students Career and Planning Services FutureBound Student Advocacy Our awards Our events Resource Centre Commissioner of Oaths Contact us   Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy