Cotutelle Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/sgs/programs/agreements/cotutelle.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University School of Graduate Studies About the School Expend Message from the Dean Information sessions Curriculum Committee Academic Council Awards Committees Annual Reports Inclusive learning Office directory Book a meeting with us Programs Expend Graduate programs Individualized program Certificate in the Teaching of Higher and Continuing Education (C-TEACH) Inter-university agreements Open courses Awards & funding Expend Provincial and federal awards Entrance awards In-house awards Other awards and funding opportunities Funding sources Skills & opportunities Expend GradProSkills Public Scholars Horizon Postdocs Summer Institute Future Earth Resources The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Site search Concordia Directories Search School of Graduate Studies COTUTELLEGive your PhD a global perspective Did you know you can pursue doctoral research at more than one university? A cotutelle opens doors to international researchers and gives you a joint PhD.   A cotutelle refers to an agreement on joint supervision between two universities at the doctoral level. It allows the students to get a joint PhD degree delivered and recognized by both institutions. Full-time doctoral students can take advantage of an exceptional opportunity to earn a joint PhD degree while developing strong connections with international partners. Through the cotutelle program, PhD candidates work in collaboration with distinguished faculty members from Concordia and an international partner university to produce an original thesis. The program requires that students satisfy each institution's minimum requirements and submit their dissertation to both universities prior to graduation. Successful candidates receive a PhD degree from Concordia and the partner institution. Benefits of a cotutelle For the student Opportunities for international research Collaborations with other researchers A recognized joint degree from Concordia and the partner university  For the university Expansion of international relationships for Concordia Raises Concordia’s visibility abroad as a centre of cutting-edge research Provides supervisors and faculty members with opportunities to develop international collaborations Candidate FAQs Where can I do a cotutelle? You are eligible to register at any international accredited university that is open to a cotutelle agreement. Concordia supervisors must approve the partner university and agree to work in collaboration with the chosen co-supervisor. How can I apply as a Concordia student? Discuss the cotutelle plan with your current Concordia supervisor Contact Irene Grigoropoulos, graduate admission advisor at the School of Graduate Studies, to discuss a potential cotutelle before communicating with the partner university If approved, reach out to your potential co-supervisor at the partner university Follow the requirements needed to enrol at the partner university Complete a Cotutelle Agreement form with your supervisor, in collaboration with Irene Grigoropoulos All other required signatures will be collected by the School of Graduate Studies Once both universities approve the cotutelle program, you will be admitted Do I have to submit an admission application to the partner university? Yes, you must follow the partner university’s application/admission procedures. Do I have to pay tuition fees? You will pay tuition for the terms you are registered at Concordia University (a minimum of 3 non-consecutive terms are required). You need to contact the partner university for questions about their tuition fees. Do I have to start the cotutelle in the first term of my PhD? No. However, the cotutelle arrangement should be established as early as possible. Am I still eligible to receive funding if I hold a Federal or Provincial Granting Agency award? Yes, in most cases. It is best to contact the Graduate Awards Office to ensure that your particular award is eligible. Do I still receive my Concordia University internal scholarship when registered at the partner institution? Internal funding administered through the School of Graduate Studies will be honored when abroad. Students must seek approval for any internal awards administered through their department or Faculty while away on a cotutelle. Ready to begin? Cotutelle with French partner university If you are pursuing a cotutelle with France, complete this form: Convention de Cotutelle (Concordia France) Cotutelle with international partner university If you are pursuing a cotutelle outside of France, complete this form: Concordia Joint PhD Agreement If Concordia University is your potential partner university 1. Visit Explore Concordia to learn more about research networks at our Montreal campuses 2. Contact Irene Grigoropoulos at the School of Graduate Studies to discuss Concordia's requirements for a cotutelle program prior to the admission deadline date 3. Apply to Concordia University as a doctoral student Questions? Irene Grigoropoulos Graduate Admission Advisor School of Graduate Studies Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy