Creative Arts Therapies Courses Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fine-arts-courses/creative-arts-therapies-courses.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 Academics 	 	  /  	 Graduate programs 	 	  /  	 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Winter 2022 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Fine Arts Courses 	 	  /  	 Creative Arts Therapies Courses 	 Creative Arts Therapies Courses Facebook Twitter LinkedIn CATS CoursesCATS 609 Introduction to Dance/Movement Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course provides an introduction to the foundations and primary concepts of dance/movement therapy and explores their relevance and applications to other creative arts therapies modalities through experiential, somatic, and theoretical approaches.CATS 610 Introduction to Topics in Clinical Psychology for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)Description: This seminar introduces creative arts therapists to the various psychopathologies, their symptomatologies, etiologies, current Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM) diagnostic criteria, and treatments.Notes:Credit received for CATS 610 cannot be applied towards a graduate program in Psychology. CATS 611 Counselling Skills for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)Description: This course introduces basic skills and practices of counselling and psychotherapy for creative arts therapists. It provides the opportunity to explore, develop, and practice the skills required for effective therapeutic interventions across varied theoretical orientations and treatment approaches. The course focuses on the therapeutic relationship and the therapeutic frame.CATS 615 Independent Practicum in the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: ATRP 613; ATRP 614. Permission of the Department is required.Description: With the Department’s approval and in agreement with a faculty supervisor, additional practicum experience is offered on an individual basis to students in special circumstances. A case study is required.CATS 631 Selected Issues in the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)Notes:This course may be repeated as CATS 631B, 631C, etc.CATS 636 Independent Studies in Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)Notes:This course may be repeated as CATS 637. CATS 638 Creative Process in Clinical Practice for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)Description: This course provides experiential learning in the clinical application of creative projection techniques through a methodology based on exploring character in myth and fairy tale. The creative process is examined through readings, discussions, masks, movement, music and drama.CATS 639 Interdisciplinary Topics: Cross-cultural Competence in the Creative Arts Therapies (1 credits)Description: This course presents cross-cultural competence as an ethical obligation, providing an overview of multi-cultural counselling theory. Students explore challenges and opportunities arising in creative arts therapies clinical practice within an environment of cultural diversity as it relates to both the therapist and the client.Notes:This course is marked on a pass/fail basis.CATS 640 Studio Media and Practice for Creative Arts Therapists (3 credits)Description: Students develop skills with a variety of studio media and processes in their own creative arts discipline, while experiencing the media and creative process of an allied discipline. Commonalities and factors unique to each are examined for their potential in interdisciplinary practice.CATS 641 Interdisciplinary Topics: Ethics in Clinical Practice in the Creative Arts Therapies (1 credits)Description: This course covers ethical standards and requirements for clinical practice as established by both professional mental health and creative arts therapies associations. Students become familiar with expectations of professional and personal conduct as well as models for ethical decision-making. Students also gain an understanding of their personal value systems in relation to their work as creative arts therapists and how those values may inform ethical decision-making within their clinical practice.Notes:This course is marked on a pass/fail basis.CATS 643 Interdisciplinary Topics: Ethics in Research in the Creative Arts Therapies (1 credits)Description: This course covers ethical standards and requirements for research as established by both professional mental health and creative arts therapies associations. Students become familiar with expectations of professional and personal conduct with respect to research in the field, including research protocols for both the Department of Creative Arts Therapies and Concordia University.Notes:This course is marked on a pass/fail basis.CATS 645 Family Systems and the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)Description: Family systems theory is introduced and specific theories and practices of family therapy are considered. Indications for the use of family therapy and its integration with the creative arts therapies are explored, as are specific methods of assessment and intervention.CATS 689 Research Paper (9 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: CATS 691. Students develop their proposals for this paper as a course requirement for CATS 691, to be submitted for approval to the Research and Ethics Committee in the winter term of their first year in the program. Description: The research paper is the formal culmination of graduate studies in the creative arts therapies. This paper includes a literature review, and may also include methodology, specific procedures, research population or sample, data collection and analysis, as appropriate to the topic approved by the Creative Arts Therapies Research and Ethics Committee. The Committee will then assign one faculty member in the Department to supervise each paper.Notes:The nine-credit component appears on the student record only once the final version of the research paper has been submitted to the Thesis Office and the Graduate Grade Activity Report Form, granting a grade of PASS, has been submitted to the Office of the Registrar.CATS 691 Research in the Creative Arts Therapies (3 credits)Description: This course presents an overview of qualitative research, theory and methodology, and their application to the creative arts therapies. Students develop critical reading skills and explore ethical issues involved in research.CATS 698 Applied Research Project with Report (6 credits)Description: The student chooses this option to further explore specific pilot project reports, feasibility studies, creative research designs utilizing media intrinsic to the creative arts therapies, or to undertake research with artistic, photographic or video documentation relevant to the creative arts therapies. All applied projects must include a written component and be presented as a public seminar upon completion.CATS 699 Comprehensive Exam (3 credits)Description: An oral/written comprehensive case study examination must be taken to demonstrate integrative aspects of learning and knowledge in the study of drama therapy or art therapy.Component(s): Thesis ResearchArt Therapy CoursesATRP 600 Readings in Art Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course provides grounding in significant schools of psychological thought and their relevance to art therapy. It also promotes advanced knowledge and understanding of the therapeutic relationship and process from a psychodynamic perspective. Studied psychotherapeutic models include: psychodynamic, object relations, humanistic, cognitive-behavioural, as well as theories of trauma.ATRP 602 Assessment Techniques in Art Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course emphasizes an understanding and experience of the purpose and process of various assessments in art therapy. The theory and practice of art therapy assessment in both clinical work and research are reviewed within the context of different populations.ATRP 603 Symbolic Imagery and Art Therapy - Studio/Workshop (3 credits)Description: Through experiential art workshops and readings, symbols and the symbolic/metaphoric function are examined with reference to various psychological models, including Freudian psychoanalysis, Jungian analytical psychology and Hillman’s archetypal/imaginal psychology. Students develop an understanding of art therapy methodology by exploring personal imagery.ATRP 604 Group and Family Art Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course provides a dialectical, experiential and practical examination of the major approaches to group dynamics, including psychodynamic, humanistic, systemic, and theories of communication. Stages, theories and clinical applications of group art therapy processes are explored.ATRP 613 Art Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)Description: In this course, students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles of psychotherapy within the practices of art therapy with a selected population. Students learn observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, skills in establishing and maintaining the therapeutic relationship, on-going evaluation, methods of clinical documentation, and professional reporting in multidisciplinary teams. Individual and group supervision are provided. A minimum of 150 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermATRP 614 Art Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: ATRP 613. Description: This course is a continuation of ATRP 613. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermATRP 620 Art Therapy Advanced Clinical Skills (3 credits)Description: This course is designed to refine students’ clinical skills and deepen understanding of the practice of art therapy from a psychodynamic perspective. Through role-play experience and clinical discussion in a seminar format, therapeutic issues which students encounter during their fieldwork are explored.ATRP 623 Advanced Art Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: ATRP 613 and ATRP 614. Description: This course is designed to promote the consolidation of students’ abilities in the practice of art therapy, to further develop clinical skills, and deepen psychotherapeutic understanding. Individual and group supervision are provided. Case presentations, readings and clinical analysis of therapeutic issues are integral to this course. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermATRP 624 Advanced Art Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: ATRP 613; ATRP 614; ATRP 623. Description: This course is a continuation of ATRP 623. A minimum of 250 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermATRP 630 Child and Adolescent Art Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course promotes an understanding of the theory and practice of art therapy with children and adolescents. Clinical applications of art therapy within diverse child and adolescent populations are examined with reference to the systemic, psychodynamic and cognitive models. Appropriate use of artistic media and play techniques are studied.ATRP 693 Research in Art Therapy (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: CATS 691.Description: This course is designed to foster the acquisition of knowledge and methodological tools in arts-based, qualitative and quantitative methods relevant to the field of art therapy. Emphasis is placed on the use of the practical tools necessary to conduct reliable and valid research.Drama Therapy CoursesDTHY 600 Current Approaches to Drama Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course provides grounding in significant theoretical theories of drama therapy and correlating schools of psychological thought and their relevance to drama therapy. It also promotes advanced knowledge and understanding of the therapeutic relationship and process from several drama therapy, psychodynamic, and psychotherapeutic perspectives. Studied psychotherapeutic models include: psychodynamic, object relations, humanistic, cognitive-behavioural, as well as theories of trauma. Drama therapy models include: role theory, projective techniques, therapeutic theatre, the use of story, and performance techniques.DTHY 603 Improvisation and Drama Therapy - Studio/Workshop (3 credits)Description: This course focuses on developing skills in adapting methods of dramatic improvisation for the purpose of therapy, including exploration of projective, playback and psychodramatic techniques. Attention is given to the theory of distancing in terms of therapeutic process and dramatic form.DTHY 604 Drama Therapy and Groups (3 credits)Description: This course provides a dialectical, experiential and practical examination of the major approaches to group dynamics, including psychodynamic, humanistic, systemic, and theories of communication. Stages, theories and clinical applications of group drama therapy processes are explored.DTHY 613 Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)Description: In this course, students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles of psychotherapy within the practices of drama therapy with a selected population. Students learn observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, skills in establishing and maintaining the therapeutic relationship, on-going evaluation, methods of clinical documentation, and professional reporting in multidisciplinary teams. Individual and group supervision are provided. A minimum of 150 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermDTHY 614 Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: DTHY 613. Description: This course is a continuation of DTHY 613. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermDTHY 623 Advanced Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision I (3 credits)Description: This course is designed to promote the consolidation of students’ abilities in the practice of drama therapy, to further develop clinical skills, and deepen psychotherapeutic understanding. Individual and group supervision are provided. Case presentations, readings and clinical analysis of therapeutic issues are integral to this course. A minimum of 200 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermDTHY 624 Advanced Drama Therapy Practicum Supervision II (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: DTHY 613; DTHY 614; DTHY 623.Description: This course is a continuation of DTHY 623. A minimum of 250 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermDTHY 643 Sociodrama and Psychodrama (3 credits)Description: Sociodrama and psychodrama practices are examined for their use as treatment modalities in drama therapy. Seminars and experiential methods of instruction integrate their practice into the aims and principles of drama therapy.DTHY 644 Child and Adolescent Drama Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course focuses on the methodologies, processes, and assessment techniques as they relate to drama therapy, play and play therapy with children and adolescents, and their families.DTHY 645 Assessment in Drama Therapy (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: DTHY 644. Description: This course explores assessment tools developed in the field of drama therapy, including those based on such dramatic media as storytelling, role-plays, puppets and masks. The theory and practice of drama therapy assessment in both clinical work and research are reviewed within the context of different populations.DTHY 693 Research in Drama Therapy (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: CATS 691. Description: This course is designed to foster the acquisition of knowledge and methodological tools in arts-based, qualitative and quantitative methods relevant to the field of drama therapy. Emphasis is placed on the use of the practical tools necessary to conduct reliable and valid research.Music Therapy CoursesMusic Therapy Graduate Diploma CoursesMTHY 501 Music Therapy Skills (3 credits)Description: This course introduces students to basic materials, methods, and skills used to engage people in music therapy. These include improvisation, performance, leadership, group management, and appropriate repertoire/materials development for various ages and populations. Participation in varied experiences include, but are not limited to, vocal and instrumental improvisation, drumming circles, movement, melodic instruments, assistive technology, integrated arts, and songwriting.MTHY 502 Psychology of Music (2 credits)Description: This course provides an introduction to phenomena involving music and human behaviour, including physical, acoustical, perceptual, psychological, neuropsychological, and pedagogical aspects.MTHY 503 Music Therapy with Adults (1 credits)Description: This course provides in depth coverage of music therapy clinical practice with diverse adult populations. This includes assessment techniques, intervention methods and strategies, improvisation, counselling skills, and an overview of the various populations.MTHY 504 Music Therapy with Children and Adolescents (1 credits)Description: This course provides in depth coverage of music therapy clinical practice with diverse child and adolescent populations. This includes assessment techniques, intervention methods and strategies, improvisation, and an overview of the various populations.MTHY 510 Music Therapy Practicum I (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed concurrently: MTHY 503. Description: This practicum course with adults is one in a series of practica that cumulatively fulfills the requirements of the 200-hour preclinical and the 1,000-hour supervised clinical internship requirements, as stipulated by the professional program approval associations (the Canadian Association for Music Therapy and the American Music Therapy Association). Students develop as professional music therapists within a social, political and cultural context. Students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles and practices of music therapy within adult populations, including observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, evaluation, and reporting in multi-disciplinary team settings. Students have the opportunity to explore, develop, and integrate academic and practical knowledge and skills within a clinical setting. A minimum of 300 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermMTHY 511 Music Therapy Practicum II (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed concurrently: MTHY 504. Description: This practicum course within children and adolescent populations is one in a series of practica that cumulatively fulfills the requirements of the 200-hour pre-clinical and the 1,000-hour supervised clinical internship requirements, as stipulated by the professional program approval associations (the Canadian Association for Music Therapy and the American Music Therapy Association). Students develop as professional music therapists within a social, political and cultural context. Students acquire skills in the implementation of the principles and practices of music therapy within child and adolescent populations, including observation and assessment procedures, treatment planning, evaluation, and reporting in multi-disciplinary team settings. Students have the opportunity to explore, develop, and integrate academic and practical knowledge and skills within a clinical setting. A minimum of 300 practicum hours is required.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermMTHY 512 Music Therapy Practicum III (9 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: MTHY 510 and MTHY 511. Description: This practicum course with diverse populations is the final in a series of practica that cumulatively fulfills the requirements of the 200-hour preclinical and the 1,000-hour supervised clinical internship requirements, as stipulated by the professional program approval associations (the Canadian Association for Music Therapy and the American Music Therapy Association). Students develop as professional music therapists within a social, political and cultural context. With a greater focus on clinical work in this practicum, students have the opportunity to specialize in a clinical population of their choice, preparing for future careers and/or graduate studies in music therapy. A minimum of 600 practicum hours is required. Students are also required to attend classes which may be offered as weekend intensives.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work TermMTHY 521 Clinical Improvisation in Music Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course explores the basic applications of clinical improvisation processes in therapy and assessment. The specific focus is determined by identified student strengths and needs, and may include Nordoff and Robbins techniques, advanced piano techniques, analytical music therapy, and others.Music Therapy MA CoursesMTHY 600 Music Therapy Advanced Literature (3 credits)Description: In this course, students examine music therapy and related literature in order to deepen their understanding of the influences on their own clinical and conceptual work. Cultural, musical, and theoretical frameworks are analyzed; these include psychodynamic, humanistic, cognitive behavioural, and other frameworks. Emphasis is placed on the integration of theory and music therapy process, assessment, intervention, and evidence-based practice.Component(s): OnlineMTHY 601 Music Therapy Supervision, Teaching, and Learning (3 credits)Description: Examination of current theories and practices in clinical music therapy supervision and in university teaching and learning. Through lectures, demonstrations, and applied practice, students develop the necessary advanced professional competencies for clinical supervision and for excellence in teaching and learning. Topics include, but are not limited to, learning styles, teaching strategies, infusion of technology in instruction, and the creation of effective learning communities.Component(s): OnlineMTHY 602 Advanced Clinical Improvisation in Music Therapy I (1.5 credits)Description: This course explores the applications of clinical improvisation processes in therapy and assessment. The specific focus is determined by identified student strengths and needs, and may include Nordoff and Robbins techniques; advanced piano techniques; analytical music therapy; and others.Component(s): OnlineMTHY 603 Advanced Clinical Improvisation in Music Therapy II (1.5 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: MTHY 602, or equivalent. Description: Advanced study in clinical improvisation techniques in music therapy. The specific focus is determined by the identified student experience, strengths, and needs, and may include Nordoff and Robbins techniques; advanced piano and vocal techniques; analytical music therapy; and others.Component(s): OnlineMTHY 623 Advanced Music Therapy Practicum I (3 credits)Description: This course offers advanced clinical experience in the students’ areas of specialization. Close individual and group supervision for students are provided. Case presentations, readings, discussion of ethical issues related to students’ work are integral to this course.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work Term; OnlineMTHY 624 Advanced Music Therapy Practicum II (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: MTHY 623. Description: This course provides further advanced clinical experience in students’ areas of specialization. Close individual and group supervision for students are provided. Case presentations, readings, discussion of ethical issues related to students’ work are integral to this course.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work Term; OnlineMTHY 625 Guided Imagery and Music, Level I (3 credits)Description: This course introduces students to the Guided Imagery and Music method (GIM) through demonstrations, theoretical discussion and personal experiences. Specific topics covered include: the role of music in GIM, relaxation techniques, types of imagery and basic guiding techniques, and the implementation of GIM in assessment. This course is graded on a Pass/Fail basis.MTHY 633 Advanced Music Therapy Practice I (6 credits)Description: This course offers advanced clinical experience in the students’ areas of specialization, with a required minimum of 100 placement hours. Close individual and group supervision for students are provided. Case presentations, readings, discussion of ethical issues related to students’ work are integral to this course.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work Term; OnlineMTHY 634 Advanced Music Therapy Practice II (6 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: MTHY 633. Description: This course provides further advanced clinical experience in students’ areas of specialization, with a required minimum of 100 placement hours. Close individual and group supervision for students are provided. Case presentations, readings, discussion of ethical issues related to students’ work are integral to this course. As part of this capstone course in the Advanced Music Therapy Practice option, students complete a public presentation which reflects a major integration of their practical work.Component(s): Practicum/Internship/Work Term; OnlineMTHY 693 Research in Music Therapy: Qualitative and Quantitative Methods (3 credits)Description: This course is designed to foster the acquisition of knowledge and methodological tools in qualitative and quantitative methods relevant to the field of Music Therapy. Particular emphasis is placed on acquisition of the practical tools necessary to conduct reliable and valid research to prepare students for the development of future research papers/projects in Music Therapy.Component(s): OnlineMTHY 698 Music Therapy Advanced Capstone Project (6 credits)Description: This course involves completing an advanced capstone project on an approved topic directly related to the discipline, profession, and/or practice of music therapy. With guidance from faculty members within the context of relevant core courses, students produce a paper and culminating presentation that reflects a deep and applied understanding of the topic.Notes:This course is marked on a pass/fail basis.MTHY 699 Thesis (21 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: CATS 691 and MTHY 693. Description: The thesis topic is chosen in consultation with the thesis supervisor, and is approved by the thesis advisory committee. Students conduct an inquiry, produce the thesis, and present it orally to their thesis advisory committee. Guidelines for the thesis are described in Thesis Preparation and Thesis Examination Regulations available from the School of Graduate Studies and the Research Handbook of the Creative Arts Therapies Department.Component(s): Thesis ResearchPlay Therapy Graduate Certificate CoursesPLTH 501 Play Therapy 1 Introduction to Play Therapy (3 credits)Description: This course introduces the history, major models, and processes of play therapy. The basic model of child-centered play therapy, which evolved from the humanistic psychotherapy model, is explored through both theory and practice. Topics such as trauma, negative life experiences, the impact of these experiences on the brain and the child’s development are introduced and will continue to be explored in other course material. This course introduces students to the four structures which contain a play therapy session. Evaluation and assessment in play therapy is addressed. The course covers common themes in play therapy acknowledging the cultural diversity of clients, record-keeping, preparation for the ending of the therapy relationship and the essential materials for an effective and culturally responsive playroom.PLTH 502 Play Therapy 2 Cognitive Behavioural Child-Centered Play Therapy (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following course must be completed previously: PLTH 501. Description: This course focuses on the theories and techniques that inform cognitive behavioural therapy and their application in play therapy. Topics include the cognitive model and cognitive behavioual therapy assessment and evaluation, session structure, and directive interventions in play therapy.PLTH 503 Play Therapy 3 Child-Centered Group Play Therapy (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: PLTH 501; PLTH 502. Description: This course emphasizes the philosophy and rationale for group work with children and pre-adolescents. Focus is on the goals of group therapy, the role of the play therapist, screening and selection of group members, play and activities at various developmental levels, and planning and structuring sessions. Building on PLTH 502, this course covers when to integrate cognitive behavioual therapy into child-centered group play therapy.PLTH 504 Play Therapy 4 Relational Play Therapy and Filial Play Therapy (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: PLTH 501; PLTH 502; PLTH 503. Description: This course focuses on the history, theoretical foundations, research, and practical applications of relational and filial play therapy. In particular, students examine the techniques and models to work with parents including the Guerney, VanFleet and Landreth models based on attachment and self-regulation theories. Students learn techniques to support the attunement of parents to their children and facilitate a more secure attachment and the strengthening of family bonds.PLTH 505 Play Therapy 5 Neurobiology and Attachment in Play Therapy (3 credits)Prerequisite/Corequisite: The following courses must be completed previously: PLTH 501; PLTH 502; PLTH 503; PLTH 504. Description: This course covers neurobiological attachment theories within child-centered play therapy. This course focuses on understanding how trauma impacts neurological development and the treatment of trauma using child-centered play therapy. Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy