De l&amp;#039;Église | Société de transport de Montréal Go to main content Go to search field Go to level 1 main menu Go to level 2 sub-menu Go to this page sub-menu Go to additionnal content Quick links Level 1 Quick links Level 2 Société de transport de Montréal Société de transport de Montréal Menu Getting around Fares Getting around Useful info Networks Métro Bus - Schedules Shared taxibus See all Service updates Métro service updates Bus service updates STM Works See all Fares Download current fare schedule (PDF) OPUS cards and other fare media Transit fares See all Customer service Contact us After-sales services in stations Lost and found See all Advice for passengers The handy guide to reconnection Ways to view bus schedules Métro service disruptions See all Rules and safety Rules and regulations Travelling safely Statements of offence and fines See all Universal accessibility Universal access Elevator access to the métro Corporate policy of universal accessibililty See all To Useful info Paratransit Reserving online with SIRTA See all Contact us See all About Paratransit What is paratransit? Paratransit customer service Paratransit history See all Admission OPUS ID Card Visitors Eligibility criteria See all Using paratransit Automated reminders Operating hours Area served See all Titles and fares Download the Paratransit fare schedule effective July 1, 2021 (PDF) FAQ - fares and fare control Fares and Fare media accepted by Transport adapté See all Tips and guidelines Lost and found Notifications Preparing for trips See all Forms See all To Paratransit Offers and outings Sooo Montréal Sooo hockey See all Boutique STM See all Newsletters Discover our newsletter Society in Motion See all To Offers and outings About Discover the STM and its history Art in the network History The STM's podcasts See all Major projects Major metro projects Major bus projects Completed major projects See all Financial and Corporate Information About the STM Organisational Strategic Plan 2025 Performance indicators See all Corporate governance Board of directors Board committees Board members See all Surveys and consultations Public consultations Join your voice See all Business zone Commercial activities Groups Partnerships and permissions See all Developers Available data description Terms of Use See all To About Networks Service updates Fares Customer service Advice for passengers Rules and safety Universal accessibility Our new mobile site FAQ Contact us Jobs Business zone Press room Ma STM Français Search within this site De l'Église Verte Useful info Networks Métro De l'Église Métro Green line Orange line Yellow line Blue line Bus - Schedules Shared taxibus Maps The bus network and the schedules enlightened Other resources src="https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=2351636091529633&ev=PageView &noscript=1"/> First and last passages Frequency of departures Entrances Bus transfers Operating hours Green line Towards Angrignon Towards Honoré-Beaugrand First Last First Last Weekdays 05h59 01h11 05h35 00h40 Saturday 05h59 01h41 05h35 01h10 Sunday 05h59 01:11 05h35 00:40 After the last métro, you can use the night bus service. Frequency of departures Green line Peak From 7am to 9am and from 4pm to 6pm Non-peak Morning, day and evening (non-peak) Week Every 3 to 5 minutes Every 4 to 10 minutes Week-end Every 6 to 12 minutes Estimated occupancy EntrancesSortie Wellington, 250, av. Galt Sortie de l'Église, 133, rue de l'Église (this fare booth is closed) Neighbourhood map (PDF)Around this station How do I get to the special shuttle in case of a métro service interruption? Ouvrir la section: Locate the special shuttle stop sign Two stops are available at this station and the signs are easily identifiable since they are green, the color of the métro line they serve. Eastbound towards Honoré-Beaugrand: Bus stop 56631, located on the southeast side of Wellington, at the corner of Galt. Westbound towards Angrignon: at stop 56632, located on the northwestside of Wellington, at the corner of Galt. This shuttle is not free, the regular fare applies.  Close Find out more about the station Ouvrir la section: Fare booth located at 133, av. de l'Église is closed IMPORTANT : You can use the other entrance to the station where a fare booth will always be open. Equipment on site to meet your needs Buy your fare or a new OPUS card (regular fare) at the automatic fare vending machine. Use the telephone identified by this symbol to speak with an employee at the main entrance. Use the telephone identified by this symbol only for safety concerns or in the event of an incident. Close Ouvrir la section: Parking space for bicycles Number of bicycle stands available outside the station: 21.  First come, first served. Before taking our public transit system with your bike, please read the Bicycles section for more info. Close Ouvrir la section: A little info about your métro station's history Architects: Lemay & Leclerc. Opened: September 1978. Origin of name: rue de l'Église, one of the oldest roads in the area that has been known by that name since the first St. Paul church was built. Did you know? This station is the only one where the superimposed platforms are both located on the left side of the train. Artwork: bas-reliefs by Claude Théberge. Discover the STM and its history Close Mobile network is available at this station. Map See the stop on the map Bus transfers Local and 10-minutes max 12 Île-des-Soeurs South North Local and 10-minutes max 37 Jolicoeur South North Local and 10-minutes max 58 Wellington West East Local and 10-minutes max 61 Wellington West East All-night 350 Verdun / LaSalle East West Top of page Metro service status Green line Normal métro service Orange line Normal métro service Yellow line Normal métro service Blue line Normal métro service Subscribe to métro service alerts TWITTER FEEDS Follow our Twitter accounts to know in real time the status of the métro service during interruptions of more than 10 minutes. @stm_Verte @stm_Orange @stm_Jaune @stm_Bleue EMAIL | SMS You can also receive service updates by email or SMS (text message) in case of a Métro service disruption lasting more than 10 minutes. Subscribe from your My STM account Useful links OPUS CARD Customer service Lost and found Visitors Quick links My voice my STM surveys Universal Accessibility Ways for viewing bus schedules Work underway Customer service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Linkedin © STM 1997-2021 Bus network Metro Network Legal Notices Developers Web Accessibility Site Plan Keep in touch