Estimate Costs | Hydro-Québec Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu All sites News Contact us Power outages Français Log-in Residential Business About Us Launch search For an alternative version of the menu below, you can access the sitemap. Display Menu Manage my account Customer Space Manage my account Take advantage of our onlineservices See your balance, due date and payment history for all your accounts. Report a change of address online. Update your communication preferences. Use our tools to understand your electricity use. …and more! Log in Create my Customer Space Click to obtain more informations about your customer space What will you need? Contract holder: Your most recent bill. Proxy holder or account manager: A recent bill of the account you manage. Account and billing Online billing Billing payment history Equalized payments plan Multiple account search tool Account manager Proxy or consent to disclosure Meters and meter-reading Understanding your bill What’s a kilowatthour? Rates Base rates Other rates Rate options Glossary Helping you understand your electricity rate Understanding power and power demand Service charges Deposit and payment guarantee Comparison of electricity prices Payment Paying your bill Pre authorized debit Online payment Options in case of payment difficulties Enter into a payment arrangement Confirm your payment About my electricity use My consumption profile New! Your consumption, by the hour. Dare to compare Home diagnostic Factors that influence consumption Breakdown of a household’s electricity use Tools to calculate consumption What you may not know about your electric devices Moving Change address Add address Remove address Become a customer Estimate a home’s electricity costs Successful move Remove or add a contract holder Manage rental Request for work Energy Wise Windows, heating and air conditioning Heating Air-conditioning Heat pumps ENERGY STAR® certified windows Electronic thermostats Central heating with electric thermal storage Geothermal systems Caulking Hot water Heating water ECOPEAK® water heaters Water- and energy-saving products Drain water heat recovery systems How to repair a leaky faucet How to check water flow rate How to install a showerhead Household appliances Household appliances ENERGY STAR® certified Household appliances How to turn off your fridge’s ice maker Electronics Home electronics Standby power consumption Game consoles Smart power bars ENERGY STAR® certified TVs How to choose an energy-efficient TV How to activate a computer’s standby mode Lighting Lighting LED bulbs LED holiday lights How to choose LED bulbs How to create your mood Pools and spas Pools and spas Pool heat pumps Solar pool covers Efficient pool pumps Pool filter timers Promotional offers Hydro-Québec offers Retail promotions Other offers and tax credits Building and renovating Thermal insulation Safety advice Estimate a home’s electricity costs Change your address in your Customer Space and save $25. Log in Create my Customer Space Click for more information on the Customer Space Here’s what you’ll need to change your address: 									 Contract holder: Your most recent bill. 									 Proxy holder, authorized person or account manager: A recent bill. Tempted by a new apartment or house? Make an informed decision by anticipating electricity costs. Quick and easy Just enter the building number and postal code of the address you’re interested in. If it’s possible to produce an estimate for the address, you’ll have it instantly. Estimate the cost Other resources for moving Find postal code Submit meter reading Notify the Service québécois de changement d’adresse Frequently asked questions Answers to help you change your address online. FAQ – Residential customers Tips for a successful move A successful move takes good planning. We’ve put together some tips to help you. Move successfully Important links Link to main sections Residential Business Link to some of our sites About Energy Wise Security advice Newsroom Contact us Power outages Jobs* Our sites Newsletters Follow us Linkedin Youtube Facebook Instagram Twitter @hydroquebec Follow us to learn more about company news. 									 @hydro_customer Questions about your bill, electricity use or our services? 									 Apps Apple Store Google Store Voice Assistants Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996- 						2021. All rights reserved. * Web site in French only