Faculty & staff Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/coronavirus/faculty-staff.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Concordia University Site search fr Menu Concordia University Coronavirus (COVID-19) Return-to-campus plan Expend Classrooms Access procedure Break areas Students Faculty & staff Well-being Expend Vaccines Updates fr The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Site search Concordia Directories Search Coronavirus (COVID-19) Concordia.ca 	 	  /  	 Coronavirus (COVID-19) 	 	  /  	 Faculty & staff 	 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Faculty & staff Keeping abreast of updates can be a challenge. Here, faculty and staff will find links to the various resources and services currently available, as well as frequently asked questions. There’s also information specific to managers. Last updated: November 26, 2021, 9:50 a.m. Information for Concordians about the COVID-19 vaccine Resources Contact with suspected cases Have you been in contact with someone who has tested positive? Do you have questions about coming to campus? Read up on the procedure for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases Library The Webster and Vanier libraries have fully re-opened.  Find out more on the Library’s website Research Re-opening of labs; FAQ for research activities and processes. Find out more on the Research COVID-19 page Technology Get technological support from Instructional and Information Technology Services. Go to the Learn, teach and work from home page Teaching Essential principles and support from the Centre for Teaching and Learning. Get CTL’s resources Return to campus Campus access information. Learn more about Concordia's return-to-campus plan Role-specific information in Carrefour Updates on student resources Human Resources (HRSS / Payroll) protocols during COVID-19 (Carrefour) Financial services protocols (including procurement) during COVID-19 (Carrefour) Your wellbeing Working through change: Resources to support you through times of renewal. CU Cares: Volunteer to help others. Frequently asked questions In-person teaching Working from home Info for staff Info for managers HR & benefits Travel In-person teaching – Fall 2021 What happens if someone in my class tests positive for COVID-19? If someone in a class tests positive for COVID-19 and was on campus during the time they might have been contagious, everyone on the class list will be notified by email – regardless of whether they attended in person or not. The email will inform students of their contact risk level and provide instructions about what to do next. In most cases, because students must wear their procedure mask at all times, they will be considered a low-risk contact and will not need to self-isolate. They’ll simply need to monitor their health for symptoms. Because students may be in more than one class with the affected individual, they may receive more than one notification. Those who do not receive any email notifications are not considered to be at risk at this time. Anyone who develops symptoms should not come to campus. They must stay home and refer to Procedure for suspected or confirmed case Is Concordia equipping classrooms with microphones so students can hear faculty if they teach with their procedure masks on? The university already equips large classrooms requiring voice amplification with microphones. Voice amplification microphones are not currently available in other rooms. If faculty require additional equipment in their classroom or if they have questions, they can contact the IITS Service Desk. For urgent classroom support, instructors should contact their closest IT Service Centre.   Should faculty record their classroom lectures? Concordia is not requiring faculty to record their classroom lectures. Should a professor choose to record their lectures, the university can support them in their bimodal instruction. Faculty are encouraged to put their class materials, including their recordings where available, on Moodle. Training for Moodle and YuJa is available to all faculty and staff. Registration is available on the IT Training page. What happens in the case of an individual who tests positive for COVID-19 at Concordia? Please note: Anyone who is experiencing COVID-19 symptoms should contact Quebec Public Health (1-877-644-4545) and follow their instructions. Concordians are also required to consult the Procedure for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases and complete the Self-Isolation form in the My Account section of the Student Hub (for students) or Carrefour (for faculty and staff). In the event of a positive case at the university, Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) will work with public health authorities to conduct an investigation and to trace possible contacts. EHS will directly contact any Concordian deemed to be a contact risk. In some instances, EHS may determine during their investigation that all attendees of a class need to self-isolate. Should this occur, EHS will advise the affected students’ departments and the Office of the Provost. The departments will then inform all the students’ professors and ensure that they make necessary arrangements. What should faculty do if a student says they have developed COVID-19 symptoms on campus? If a student tells an instructor in person that they have developed COVID-19 symptoms, they should instruct the student to put on their procedure mask and exit the campus immediately. While exiting, the student must maintain two metres of physical distancing from others and refrain from touching surfaces unnecessarily. If possible, students should avoid using public transit.  Once home, the student must:  call Quebec Public Health (1-877-644-4545) and follow their instructions complete the Self-Isolation form in the My Account section of the Student Hub Instructors should also advise the student that Environmental Health and Safety will initiate a suspected COVID-19 investigation, including contact tracing, which consists of collecting information regarding individuals they encountered while on campus. Faculty can refer to the Procedure for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases for more information. What should faculty do if a student says they have developed COVID-19 symptoms off campus? If a student tells an instructor remotely that they have developed COVID-19 symptoms, they should advise the student to stay home, call Quebec Public Health (1-877-644-4545) and follow their instructions. If told to self-isolate, the student must complete the COVID-19 Self-Isolation form in the My Account section of the Student Hub. In this case, Concordia encourages faculty to make accommodations for the student regarding required assignments and in-person attendance, as well as for others who may be affected while the student is unwell. If the student was on campus 48 hours prior to developing COVID-19 symptoms, Environmental Health and Safety will contact them and conduct a suspected COVID-19 investigation. Faculty can refer to the Procedure for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases for more information. What should faculty do in the event that a student with COVID-19 symptoms requires immediate medical attention? In the event a student requires immediate medical attention and cannot leave campus on their own, instructors should call Campus Security at 514-848-3717.  Campus Security will take the necessary steps to ensure the student obtains medical assistance.  The student should be directed to an isolation room. Each unit or department at the university has an isolation room for individuals who present COVID-19 symptoms while on campus. What happens if a professor tests positive for COVID-19 during the term? If a professor tests positive for COVID-19, they must complete the COVID-19 Self-Isolation form under the My CU Account section of Carrefour.  If an instructor is unable to teach a class in person due to an illness, they can deliver their course remotely by recording their upcoming lecture. In the event a professor is too ill to record their lecture, the university will request that another instructor deliver the course in their absence. What should an instructor do if a student is not wearing a procedure mask? As more students return to campus over the fall term, there may be more instances when Concordians simply forget to put their masks on when walking around on campus. Some individuals may also be exempt from wearing a procedure mask due to medical issues. Should an instructor see someone who is not wearing a procedure mask in a shared indoor space, they should kindly remind the individual to put one on. Procedure masks help protect others from contracting COVID-19, as outlined in the “COVID Safety Pledge” that Concordians must commit to before accessing campus. If a student in a class refuses to wear a procedure mask, faculty should ask them to step out the classroom and remind them that they can pick up a free one from a campus access point. Failure to comply with COVID-19 health protocols can result in the university revoking an individual’s access-to-campus privileges. In the event that someone refuses to wear a procedure mask, please contact Campus Security at 514-848-3717 for further assistance.  What should faculty do if a student is coughing during a lecture? Because procedure masks are effective at blocking droplets and aerosols from talking, coughing and sneezing, instructors simply need to check that the student is wearing their procedure mask in accordance with mandatory health and safety directives on campus. What should an instructor do if a student does not keep two metres of physical distance when speaking to them or to other students? Individuals must only keep two metres apart when they are not wearing procedure masks. At Concordia, all members of the university community must wear procedure masks on campus when they are unable to respect two metres of physical distancing. If a student who previously had COVID-19 symptoms returns to class exhibiting the same signs of illness, what should an instructor do? Faculty should advise the student to return home, contact Quebec Public Health (1-877-644-4545) and follow their instructions. They must also complete the Self-Isolation form in the My Account section of the Student Hub. If a student is not well enough to leave on their own, instructors should contact Campus Security at 514-848-3717. Where can faculty find the COVID-19 directives applicable to their classroom? COVID-19 safety directives are posted in all classrooms. Instructors who are teaching in a classroom without a poster listing the COVID-19 safety directives should advise Environmental Health and Safety by email at ehs@concordia.ca. EHS asks that faculty include the classroom number and course they are teaching in their email.  Where are Concordia’s COVID-19 isolation rooms? Each unit or department at the university has an isolation room for individuals who present COVID-19 symptoms while on campus. Units and departments should only use isolation rooms when someone is unable to leave campus immediately. Faculty should contact their chair or director to learn the location of their department’s isolation room. Whom should faculty contact with any questions regarding health and safety protocols on campus? Instructors can send their questions about health and safety protocols to Environmental Health and Safety by email at ehs@concordia.ca. Where can faculty read the university’s Procedure for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases? Instructors can consult the procedure for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases by visiting Environmental Health and Safety’s webpage. Are there markings on classroom floors to help keep instructors and students at a two-metre distance? Some classrooms have tape on the ground to mark where faculty can keep two metres from students’ seating area. If an instructor cannot stay within that area, they must wear their procedure mask. Working from home 2021-22 transition period Concordia is taking the opportunity to use the 2021-22 academic year as a transition period to assess which initiatives to carry over from the past year, including introducing a set of remote work guidelines for the majority of Concordia staff.   At the end of the academic year, Concordia will assess and re-evaluate the situation, as well as the university’s collective experiences, to make decisions about the future of remote work. Do all faculty and staff, including teaching assistants, have access to Zoom? All employees have access to Zoom. Teaching assistants must activate their Concordia email address (firstname.lastname@concordia.ca) to gain access to the university’s Zoom license. Once activated, they can use Zoom for the duration of their contract. Will Concordia continue to offer resources on how to work from home? The university will continue to provide guidance on working from home through Learn, teach, work from home and the CU at Home website, as well as regular virtual meetings and town halls for units, supervisors and members of the administration. If an employee needs access to their computer files, how can they be accessed remotely? Concordia's Virtual Private Network (VPN) service allows staff and faculty whoare working remotely with access to services. Instructions are available on the dedicated IITS webpage. Support is also available at the IITS Help Desk (help@concordia.ca). How can employees ensure they don’t lose remote access to their office computer while working from home? To maintain access to campus files and tools through a remote desktop, it is important that faculty and staff avoid restarting, shutting down or putting to sleep their office computer. When they need to leave their remote desktop, they can safely select “disconnect.” This should ensure that their office computer remains on. As a temporary measure, to help office computers remain powered on during the COVID-19 pandemic, IITS has hidden the shutdown option on IITS-managed computers. Employees can contact the IT Service Desk if they’re having problems connecting to their office computer or maintaining a remote desktop connection. Who is available to help an employee if they lose remote access to their office computer? Faculty and staff can contact the IT Service Desk if they’re having problems connecting to their office computer or maintaining a remote desktop connection. If their office computer has been shut down or lost power, employees are asked to provide their office room number in their service request. This will allow IITS to send someone to turn it back on. Can employees get guidance on how to set up a comfortable and safe home working environment? Environmental Health and Safety (EHS) has made available information on how to work from home while minimizing the risk of injuries — particularly linked to an employee's desk and computer setup. Because some people may have specific concerns, EHS is also booking online appointments for ergonomic consultations. Concordia employees who need to speak with an EHS expert can email a request to ehs@concordia.ca. Do employees need a medical certificate if they are self-isolating? No, a medical certificate is not required. If an employee has been instructed to self-isolate by public health authorities, we also ask that they complete the Self-isolation form on Carrefour.  If employee experiences an injury while working from home for the university, do they still report the injury, and what is the process? Yes, if an employee incurs an injury while working for the university remotely they should report it to their supervisor. They should also fill in this injury form and email it to their supervisor and copy EHS at workinjury@concordia.ca. Please note: If the injury requires medical attention or lost time, a doctor’s note is required.  For additional information, faculty and staff can refer to concordia.ca/campus-life/safety/injury. Info for staff Can on-campus events take place? Space reservations resume according to the Policy on the Temporary Use of Space (VPS-24) with additional COVID safety regulations based on the Government of Quebec’s reopening plan. Employees are encouraged to find out more about what's in place for fall 2021. Do employees have to take vacation days even if they are unable to travel? Staff must use their vacation entitlement as per their union’s or association’s collective agreement or policy. Even if vacations may be different during these unusual times, it is important for Concordians to take time off to disconnect and find space to relax and recharge. What should an employee do if they would like to take part in training sessions and other online opportunities during working hours? Staff should discuss any plans with their supervisor. Where can employees find guidance and resources for keeping their work on track? Human Resources has created a guide for staff and faculty trying to adjust to new ways of working. Additional resources are also available on the Working Through Change page on Carrefour. Are employees allowed to work overtime? As per usual practice, overtime must be pre-approved by the employee's manager. Info for managers See the Return to Campus resources for managers on Carrefour Can on-campus events take place? Space reservations resume according to the Policy on the Temporary Use of Space (VPS-24) with additional COVID safety regulations based on the Government of Quebec’s reopening plan. Employees are encouraged to find out more about what's in place for fall 2021. What should I do if an employee is self-isolating due to COVID-19? If they have not already done so, instruct them to complete the self-isolation form, located on Carrefour. If they are able to work and can complete their tasks remotely, there is nothing further to be done. If they are too ill to work remotely, please contact medicalabsence@concordia.ca so that they can be placed on sick leave, according to the rules of their contract or collective agreement. If they are well enough to work but cannot perform their regular tasks remotely, please contact labour@concordia.ca What should a manager do if they see an employee who is not wearing a procedure mask in a shared indoor space on campus? As more faculty and staff return to campus over the fall term, there may be more instances when employees simply forget to put their masks on when walking around on campus. Should a manager see an employee who is not wearing a procedure mask in a shared indoor space, they should kindly remind the individual that they need to put one on. Procedure masks help protect everyone from contracting COVID-19, as outlined in the “COVID-19 Safety Pledge” that Concordians must commit to before accessing campus.  Cases of non-compliance will be addressed through the respective collective or employment agreement or policy.   In the event that an employee refuses to wear a procedure mask, managers should contact Campus Security at extension 3717 for further assistance. Should managers continue to encourage their employees to take their vacation? Yes. Even if vacations may be different during these unusual times, it is even more important for faculty and staff to take time off to disconnect and find space to relax and recharge.  Can managers ask their employee(s) to provide their vacation plans for the coming year? Yes, managers should request vacation plans from their employee(s) and schedule them as usual taking into account service requirements. All employees are entitled and encouraged to take vacation days during the pandemic. Can employees pay out their vacation days? Given that vacations provide incredible benefits for an individual’s mental health and wellness, Concordia is not providing the option for employees to monetize their vacation days.  Can employee(s) postpone or carry over their personal or family days into the next fiscal year? Employees cannot carry over personal or family days from one year to another. Collective agreements and official university policies remain in effect during the COVID-19 pandemic. What should a manager do if they have an employee who wants to change their work conditions (location, schedule, etc.) as a result of the pandemic, or because of exceptional circumstances? For any questions on changes to an employee’s work conditions, managers should contact a representative of Employee and Labour Relations. Where can managers find guidance and resources for keeping staff engaged and work on track? Human Resources has created a guide for staff and faculty trying to adjust to new ways of working, some tips and tricks for managers, and a guide to keep managers and staff fully engaged and productive while working from home. Managers who have specific questions on navigating these challenging times can also reach out to Natalie Camirand, manager of organizational development. Are there any resources for managers on holding effective online or hybrid meetings? For more information on how to hold effective online meetings, managers can refer to these tips for virtual meetings. If they have employees working remotely and on campus, Human Resources also offers strategies for hosting hybrid meetings.  For other resources to support employees through times of change, managers can visit Human Resources’ dedicated Working Through Change page on Carrefour. How can managers support a team member who feels lonely? If a manager knows that someone on their team lives alone, feels lonely or is experiencing difficulties adapting to working remotely or in a hybrid fashion, they should make sure to connect with them regularly to keep track of how they are feeling. Managers and employees are encouraged to brainstorm together and identify ideas that may help them get through this situation more easily. Managers can also suggest that staff try to maintain their relationships and support each other by keeping in contact. Everyone has a role to play in lifting their own spirits and, consequently, lifting the spirit of the community. If a manager is worried about one of their team members or colleagues, they may refer them to Concordia’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP) at 1-800-663-1142 (English services) or 1-866-398-9505 (French services). They may also suggest that they visit the EAP website. All contact between Concordia employees and their EAP counsellor is confidential and at no cost. Consult this Carrefour FAQ for practical steps you can follow to approach or respond to a colleague or employee in need HR & benefits Human Resources (HRSS / Payroll) protocols during COVID-19 (Carrefour) How can employees contact Human Resources? Human Resources continues to serve the university community remotely. Employees can reach out using one of the following email addresses. Contact Email Reason HR Reception hr-reception@concordia.ca General inquiries Payroll payroll@concordia.ca Salary, Record of Employment, tax waivers Letter of Attestation attestation.letters@concordia.ca Staff (non-faculty), required for mortgage, immigration, etc. NOHCE submissions nohce@concordia.ca Notice of Hire for Casual Employees form taken from Carrefour in order to process timesheets payment Benefits benefits@concordia.ca Health insurance, maternity and non-sick leaves, RRSP Pensions pensions@concordia.ca Pension eligibility, estimation, retirement income, pension benefit entitlements, beneficiary designation changes Employee and Labour Relations labour@concordia.ca Inquiries about collective agreements, grievances / complaints Medical Absence medicalabsence@concordia.ca Sick leaves, short and long-term disability, CSST and SAAQ claims Employment hr-employment@concordia.ca General inquiries, external applications Training training@concordia.ca Training and Learning and Development Are Benefits, Payroll and Pension drop-in hours still operational? Physical drop-in hours have been cancelled. Employees may contact Human Resources at the email addresses noted above. Are all employees eligible for Concordia’s Employee Assistance Program (EAP)? Yes, the university’s EAP is available to all Concordia employees — including their spouses and dependent children — until May 31, 2022, at no extra cost. Accessible 24 hours a day, seven days per week, the program offers counselling services and a wealth of online resources. Travel Can faculty/staff travel? Does this include research travel? Necessary research/academic travel is allowed.  Staff intending to travel outside of Canada for official university business must receive prior authorization from their supervisor. Faculty continue to be required to inform their department chair if the intended travel conflicts with teaching or service responsibilities. Exceptionally and until further notice: faculty, postdoctoral students, graduate students and research personnel who wish to conduct research fieldwork outside of Canada must complete a request for Continuing Essential Field Research Activities. For more information, faculty and staff are encouraged to consult Concordia’s message on work- or research-related travel outside of Canada. The travel registry is to be used for international travel related to Concordia business, in order to provide support in case of an emergency. Travellers are strongly encouraged to complete the registry before any international travel. Read the OVPRGS Notice on travel outside Canada. What are the vaccination requirements for entry to Canada? COVID-19 vaccination requirements for entry to Canada that take effect January 15, 2022, stipulate that only fully vaccinated individuals will be allowed entry into Canada. Barring a very limited number of exceptions, those who are non- or partially vaccinated will be refused entry. Concordia recommends that all faculty, staff and students who are not fully vaccinated should do so as soon as possible or plan to arrive in Canada before January 15, 2022. For more information, Concordians can consult the Government of Canada’s list of approved vaccines. Follow Concordia's quarantine guidelines Government of Canada's updates on travel restrictions, exemptions and advice Still have questions? For student records, official transcripts, letter of attestation and request forms (Office of the Registrar, Birks Student Service Centre): students@concordia.ca ​For awards, loans, scholarships and bursaries (Financial Aid and Awards Office): ​fundingyoureducation@concordia.ca ​For fees and tuition (Student Accounts): studentaccounts@concordia.ca ​For exams: examsoffice@concordia.ca For advising: Contact your department and also refer to the Advising information for new and current undergraduate students web page. Coming to campus: Have you been in contact with someone who has tested positive? Read up on the procedure for suspected or confirmed COVID-19 cases If you have questions that are not addressed by the FAQ, please write to covid19info@concordia.ca. Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy