Film and Moving Image Studies MA Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/fine-arts-programs/film-and-moving-image-studies-ma.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 Academics 	 	  /  	 Graduate programs 	 	  /  	 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Winter 2022 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Fine Arts Programs 	 	  /  	 Film and Moving Image Studies MA 	 Film and Moving Image Studies MA Admission RequirementsUndergraduate degree in film studies with a minimum B average (GPA 3.00)Applicants may be requested to attend an interview with the graduate committee.Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the English language proficiency page for further information on requirements and exemptions. Additional Admission RequirementsAll applicants will be required to submit an example of their writing on cinema, and a letter of intent.Some applicants who have undergraduate degrees in other programs will also be considered. These students must have a strong interest in cinema from the perspective of other disciplines such as art history, film production, communications, English, French, sociology, philosophy, history or political science. Students applying from non-film studies programs must demonstrate to the committee that they have a basic knowledge of core film studies materials.Qualified applicants lacking prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits (or the equivalent, to be approved by the Department’s Graduate Studies Committee) in addition to the regular graduate program. Degree RequirementsFully-qualified candidates are required to complete a minimum of 45 credits.Please see the Mel Hoppenheim School of Cinema Courses page for course descriptions. Film and Moving Image Studies MA (45 credits)9credits of Film and Moving Image Studies MA Required Courses 36credits chosen from one of the following options: Film and Moving Image Studies MA Option A - Thesis Film and Moving Image Studies MA Option B - Course-based Film and Moving Image Studies MA Option A - Thesis (36 credits)9credits of Elective Courses chosen from the Film and Moving Image Studies MA Courses Note: The maximum value of practicum (internship) credits allowable in this option is 6.27credits: • FMST 690 MA Research and Thesis (27.00) Film and Moving Image Studies MA Option B - Course-based (36 credits)36credits of courses chosen from the Film and Moving Image Studies MA Courses list. Note: The maximum number of practicum (internship) credits allowable in this option is 12. Film and Moving Image Studies MA Required Courses (9 credits)6credits: • FMST 601 Methods in Film and Moving Image Studies I (3.00) • FMST 602 Methods in Film and Moving Image Studies II (3.00) 3credits chosen from: • FMST 610 Topics in Cinema Québécois (3.00) • FMST 605 Topics in English Canadian Cinema (3.00) Film and Moving Image Studies MA Courses • FMST 615 Topics in European Cinema (3.00) • FMST 620 Topics in Non-European Cinema (3.00) • FMST 625 Topics in Film History (3.00) • FMST 630 Topics in Film Theory (3.00) • FMST 635 Topics in Aesthetics and Cultural Theory (3.00) • FMST 640 Gender Issues in Film (3.00) • FMST 645 Topics in Film Genres (3.00) • FMST 650 Topics in Experimental Film and Video (3.00) • FMST 655 Topics in Documentary (MA) (3.00) • FMST 660 Topics in Film Directors (3.00) • FMST 665 Topics in Film and Moving Image Studies (3.00) • FMST 670 Independent Study (3.00) • FMST 675 Practicum (3.00) • FMST 680 Practicum (3.00) • FMST 685 Practicum (6.00) Additional Degree RequirementsOptions. The program offers two different options to fulfill degree requirements. Both program options require original research.Courses. All students may take 9 of their required additional course credits in graduate courses offered by other departments in the university. Such courses must be approved by the Department’s Graduate Studies Committee, with permission of the other department concerned.In admitting students to Film and Moving Image Studies MA Option A - Thesis , the GPD will ensure that a potential supervisor exists within the faculty for the student’s research area. The onus is on the student, however, to secure a member of the faculty to supervise the thesis. See the course description for FMST 690 for further detail. In each course, students pursuing Film and Moving Image Studies MA Option B - Course-based are required to submit a research paper and make an oral presentation. Students will become familiar with a broad range of methodologies and film practices. Within this framework, they may also be able to pursue specific areas of interest by enroling in independent studies, internships or taking courses in other departments in the university. Practicum Credits. See the course descriptions for FMST 675, FMST 680 and FMST 685 for detail. Language. All students are expected to have a reading knowledge of English and French at the time they begin classes. Courses will be conducted in English, although French texts may be assigned on occasion. Written and oral assignments may be submitted in either English or French. Students who cannot read both French and English texts comfortably should begin their remedial language work before starting classes. A test will be administered by the department to ensure a functioning competency in French for those students whose first language is English or another language. All students must pass this test before receiving their degree, except those who demonstrate to the Graduate Program Director that they are fluently bilingual. A student may also apply to be exempted from the French language test should competency in a language other than English or French be pertinent to the student’s research. This competency must be verified by the GPD. Academic RegulationsAcademic Standing. Please refer to the Academic Standing section of the Calendar for a detailed review of the Academic Regulations.Residence. All options have a minimum residence requirement of three terms of full-time study or the equivalent in part-time study.Time Limit. Please refer to the Academic Regulations page for further details regarding the Time Limits.Graduation Requirement. In order to graduate, students must have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.70. Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy