Funding Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/students/exchanges/funding.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University Student Hub My Courses Expend My class schedule My class list My Moodle My CU Account Services & resources Student life Events About The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for... Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Student Hub Concordia.ca 	 	  /  	 Students 	 	  /  	 International programs for Concordia students 	 	  /  	 Funding 	 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Funding opportunities Help finance your Study Abroad experience with a variety of funding options managed by Concordia International. Contact the Concordia International office for guidance or questions regarding these funding options. Disclaimer: While we make every effort to provide accurate and up-to-date information on international funding opportunities, the terms and conditions (including deadlines, eligibility, requirements and procedures) are subject to change by host organizations. It is the responsibility of the applicant to verify the accuracy of the information presented in this website. Internal funding:   Quebec Mobility Bursary The Ministère de l'éducation et de l'enseignement supérieur offers a mobility bursary program to students studying outside Quebec as part of their Concordia degree programs.  The bursary program is administered jointly by Concordia International and the Concordia Financial Aid and Awards Office.  Certain eligibility requirements apply and funding is limited.  Please read more by clicking the tab below:   See eligibility & how to apply Goldie & Joe Raymer Fellowship Technion-Israel Institute of Technology, provides students in any discipline with funding through the Goldie and Joe Raymer Travel Fellowship. The purpose of this fellowship is to promote academic collaboration, student exchange and research internships between the two institutions. For more information, please contact Pauliina Rouleau Naim Mahlab Student Travel Award The Naim Mahlab Student Travel Award to Tel Aviv University is intended to encourage and reward students currently enrolled in any program of any Faculty at Concordia University and who have received an authorization to conduct study or research for at least one semester through the institutional academic exchange program between Concordia University and Tel Aviv University. The award is competitive and will be granted through academic merit and assessment of financial need. The amount of the award is $5000. Students benefiting from the award must maintain full-time enrolment at Tel Aviv University.  For more information, please contact Pauliina Rouleau External funding:   Concordia International has provided a useful list of some of the funding resources outside Concordia University you can explore to help finance your Study Abroad experience. Country Name Overview Numerous countries Government of Canada Scholarships Website Government of Canada website that gathers many different scholarship funds, both from the Canadian government and outside funding intended for Canadian students wishing to study abroad or for foreign students wishing to study in Canada. Most countries EDC International Business Scholarship EDC awards up to 30 scholarships annually, 25 of which go to undergraduate university or college students interested in pursuing a career or furthering their studies in international business. Most countries Les offices jeunesse internationaux du Québec (LOJIQ) LOJIQ offers several programs and funding opportunities to support students applying to study or to do an internship abroad. Various countries Quebec MESRS: Programmes de bourses des gouvernements étrangers Certain governments have scholarships agreements with Quebec. These agreements provide Quebec residents with funds to study abroad in the corresponding countries. France University of Tours One scholarship of 500€ per month for up to 4 months (For the Fall semester – September-December) or 5 months (for the Winter/Spring semester - January-May) is available to an outgoing exchange student attending University of Tours during the academic year 2020/2021. Germany German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) Scholarships are available for undergraduate students taking part in an organized study abroad program/exchange in Germany or as part of an individual, student-designed study abroad experience. Learn more about the opportunities the DAAD offers by attending their webinar series. Germany Bourse des premiers ministres Québec - Bavière The Ministère des Relations Internationales et de la Francophonie (MRIF) offers two specialization scholarships worth $5,000 each, to Quebec students interested coducting a brief research project (4 to 12 weeks) in Bavaria, as part of their Masters or PhD program. Germany - Freiburg Baden-Württemberg-Scholarship The Baden-Württemberg Scholarship is only available for exchange students nominated to the University of Freiburg. Masters and bachelor students who are awarded the scholarship will receive 600 Euros per month; PhD students will receive 900 Euros per month. The scholarship is awarded for a minimum of 3 and a maximum of 9 months.  Germany - Karlsruhe Baden-Württemberg-Scholarship This scholarship is available for one exchange student nominated to the Karlsruhe University of Education in the academic year 2018/19. The scholarship recipient will receive about 500 Euros per month. The scholarship is awarded for a minimum of 5 and a maximum of 11 months. Find out hout to apply here. India Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute - Shastri Mobility Programme   The Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute is a binational organization that promotes understanding between India and Canada through academic activities and exchanges. Our broad-based initiatives support the creation of binational links between academia, government, the business community and civil society organizations by funding research and hosting seminars. Our internships and fellowships provide opportunities for individuals to gain first-hand experience in India or Canada.  Israel Masa Israel Journey If eligible, students have the ability to receive a grant of at least $1,250 USD towards their semester abroad in Israel. Japan Japanese Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) MEXT offers scholarships to foreign students wanting to study Japanese language and culture in Japan. Japan  Japan-Canada Academic Consortium The Japan-Canada Academic Consortium aims to promote the exchange of undergraduate and graduate students, researchers and teachers, and to encourage a movement of ideas and knowledge between the two countries.   Mexico Merit Awards for International Students The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Mexican Agency for International Development Cooperation (AMEXCID) invites foreign citizens who are interested in studying for a specialization, master’s degree or doctorate, conducting graduate or postdoctoral research, or taking part in an undergraduate or graduate-level academic mobility program, to participate in the 2019 Mexican Government Scholarship Program for International Students. Spain Erasmus+ KA107 Funding is available for graduate or undergraduate students taking part in an organized exchange program at the Centro Universitario de Artes TAI during the academic year 2021-22. The funding consists of 850€/month for five months + a lump sum for travel costs of 820€ for a total of 5070€. For more information, please contact pauliina.rouleau@concordia.ca. Confirmed for 2021-22. Taiwan (China) Taiwan Ministry of Education Ministry of Education Taiwan Scholarship Program - for those who are interested in pursuing their graduate or Ph. D. degree in a Taiwan university. Ministry of Education Huayu Enrichment Scholarship Program - allows students to attend a Language Centre in Taiwan for three months, six months, nine months, one year and two-month summer classes. United Kingdom BUTEX North American Scholarships Undergraduate Concordia students who have been offered a study abroad or exchange place at a UK university which is BUTEX affiliated can apply for a one-time scholarship of £500. United States Fullbright Program The Fulbright Program provides funding for graduate students, faculty, professionals and independent researchers to conduct research, lecture, or enroll in formal academic programs in the United States. United States Killam Fellowship The Killam Fellowship provides funding for undergraduates who are Canadian citizens who want to study in the United States for one semester or one academic year. The award is highly prestigious. Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy