Get Started Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/hospitality/event-planning/get-started.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University Hospitality Concordia Event Planning Expend Virtual Event Planning Get Started Space Reservation Food & Catering for Events Policies, Forms and Waivers Events for 2021-22 Campus Food Services Alcohol Parking Lockers The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for... Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Hospitality Concordia Concordia.ca 	 	  /  	 Hospitality Concordia 	 	  /  	 Event Planning 	 	  /  	 Get Started 	 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Planning an Event Do-it-Yourself Events Do-it-Yourself Events (DIY) are all internal events on campus handled by you, the Event Organizer, without the assistance of a Hospitality Concordia Event Coordinator. DIY Events can be held within all available University spaces including some venues managed by Hospitality Concordia. To learn which are Hospitality Concordia DIY events, see "Hospitality Events (DIY events and Event Coordination)" below. To help you plan, we've introduced detailed steps for DIY events: "Before you begin" and "Put your plan into action" (see below). These steps include all the details you will need to organise your event, plus the resources available to ensure your event on campus is a success! Hospitality Coordinated Events Hospitality Concordia will assign an Event Coordinator to assist you in organizing the event details for specific event types taking place in Hospitality Concordia managed venues. To learn which events will have the assistance of an Event Coordinator, see "Hospitality Events (DIY events and Event Coordination)" below. Hospitality Events (DIY Events and Event Coordination) Hospitality DIY Event Types *The event types below may include External Guest Speakers Meetings Bake Sales Info Tables Seminars Workshops / Trainings Study Sessions Coffee Breaks Breakfasts / Luncheons Hospitality Coordinated Events A Hospitality Concordia Event Coordinator will be assigned to the following event types taking place in Hospitality Concordia venues. *The event types below may include External Guest Speakers Events with alcohol Events with expected media Events with minors Events with Government Officials Lectures Film/Photo Shoots Receptions / Cocktails Banquets / BBQs Press Conferences Exhibitions / Fairs Orientation Activities Ceremonies Case Competitions Conferences If you are organizing an event listed above in a Hospitality Concordia Venue, a Hospitality Event Coordinator will be assigned to your event once your space request has been approved. To request a Hospitality Concordia venue, see Space Reservation. Hospitality Venues (capacity and layout) The chart lists Hospitality managed venues which are made available to DIY events. We have illustrated each venue with possible room set-up configurations and the maximum capacity for each. Maximum capacity in a venue must be respected. Venue Theatre U-Shape Workshop Conference Banquet Reception Table MB 2.130 45 26 38 28 32 59   MB-1.155             1 MB-9 A 60 22 40 30 50 90   MB-9 B 40 20 30 20 40 50   MB-9 CD 100 38 60 44 80 140   MB-9 EG 40   24 28 30 60   MB-9 F 50 12 30 20 60 120   MB-9 ABCD     130   170     MB-9 ABCDEFG 290       260 290   LB-1 Atrium             1 EV-1.116             1 EV-2.200             1 VL-1B             1 RF-110 80 30 45 36 64 90   RF-120 80 30 45 36 64 90   RF-130 80 30 45 36 64 90   RF-335 50 20 40 30 32 55   RF-324       8       No rental fee is applicable to the above venues. If you don't find what you are looking for, visit the Designated Space Administrators (DSA) List. Before you begin There are a few decisions to make and tips to consider prior to selecting a venue, to faciliate the planning process for your event: 1. What is your expected attendance? 2. Who will be invited to your event? 3. Is the event formal or informal? 4. What room setup style do you want? 5. Will you require audiovisual equipment? 6. Do you need podiums or cocktail tables or specific furniture in your venue? 7. Will you serve food, refreshments or alcohol? 8. Are you planning a conference which requires online registration? A few tips Plan in advance. The key to a successful event is to allow plenty of time for the planning process to ensure you have everything covered! Respect your deadlines to ensure you don't jeopordize your event. Get your prior approval form (Staff and Faculty). As part of the Policy on Hospitality, Meetings and Events on Campus, Staff and Faculty (not Student Associations) must obtain prior approval from their Dean/Administrative Unit if there will be alcohol served or sell and/or if the event catering portion exceeds $5,000. The Prior Approval Form must be included with the request for space and/or alcohol. Consider your budget. Knowing what budget you have available will help you make decisions on details such as food, alcohol, equipment. Registered Student Associations. Please insure that you have budget approval from your VP Finance of your Umbrella Association before making any event related requests. Pay attention to the details. If you want to serve food or alcohol, or expect minors to attend, read our policies. You are responsible for adhering to all relevant policies, booking terms and procedures that apply to your event. Provide an accurate description of your event when you submit your request. Lack of information can result in delays or services which may impact the success of your event.   Patience before promotion. You must ensure you have an official space confirmation for your event before you can advertise your event. Request and review quotes and confirmations received by service providers to ensure accuracy of information. View the DIY Event Planning Guide that provides you with event planning tools and resources to help you plan a successful event. Now that you have a clear vision of the event you are planning and your needs, you are ready to put your plan into action! Put your plan into action Book your venue To place a request for a space that best suits your needs, visit Space Reservation. Serve food and beverage If you plan to serve food at your event, you can: Choose to work with a University Approved Caterer Choose to self-cater your event Details and guidelines to be respected can be found on Food and Catering.   Alcohol at Events Alcohol is permitted at events on campus, with the exception of Hospitality DIY events. Details and guidelines to be respected can be found on Alcohol at Events. Request your room set-up and furniture Furniture available through Facilities Management (delivery fees apply): Rectangular 6 foot table Folding chairs Poster boards Coat racks Risers Wooden easels You must request the Facilities Management furniture via call2400@concordia.ca or 514-848-2424 ext. 2400.   Furniture available throught Hospitality Concordia (rental fees apply): Cocktail tables Banquet tables Podium You must request the Hospitality furniture via the MyEvents portal (form is called "Equipment (DIY)). The portal is also accessible via Carrefour's My CU Account page (for faculty and staff).   Place your Request with Facilities Management for Room Set up and Furniture Once you have decided what will be your room set up for your event, you must let Facilities Management know so that they can take care of the room set up and delivery/pick up of the furniture. You are not authorize to do the room set up yourself. In order to do so, you need to complete a work order form through Maximo. Work orders must be placed no later than 6 days prior to your event date. See completed sample work order form.   If you don't have a Maximo account: Request the account as early as possible, at least 10 business days notice before your event date. Visit Maximo User Request Form. Complete the form and your login credentials will be sent via email. If you need help with Maximo, contact Facilities Management at call2400@concordia.ca or 514-848-2424 ext. 2400.   Cancellations For room set up cancellations, contact Facilities Management at call2400@concordia.ca or 514-848-2424 ext. 2400 at least 3 days in advance to avoid fees. Reserve your audiovisual equipment and technician Request Audiovisual Equipment and an IT Technician Complete the IITS Service Request Form.  For specifications on classrooms and equipment available per room, please visit classroom information and support. Registered Student Association requests: Budget approval is required by the VP Finance of your Umbrella Student Association before making a request.   Pricing & Cancellations To see pricing and cancellation terms, visit IITS Service Catalog.   Audiovisual needs in SGW Alumni Auditorium (H-110) Please contact DeSeve Cinema at deseve@concordia.ca or 514-848-2424 ext. 3461 for any question. For pricing inquiries, please visit IITS Cinemas webpage. Other furniture and external suppliers Sustainable Concordia has an on campus service which rents out some great dishware, cutlery and linens for your events, managed through The Dish Project. If you need a greater selection you can start by checking our some external suppliers in the Montreal area: Bravo Location Rentals Inc., Locations Chic, Celebrations.  Direct your guests (signage) Place a sign outside the venue if you wish to identify your event for your attendees. See instructions and event sign template.   Contact us Staff directory Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy