Globalink Research Award | Mitacs Skip to main content Mitacs English Français Search Advanced Search Type Article Basic page Event FAQ Page Homepage Job / Internship Posting Newsroom Item Office Location Opportunity Program Programs Landing Page Research Project Testimonial Webform ProgramsAccelerate Elevate Globalink Training Policy Fellowship Entrepreneur International Business Strategy Internship Impact Projects Newsroom About Menu Globalink Come to Canada Travel from Canada Globalink Research Award AboutEligibilityHow to ApplyAward guidelinesInternational Partners InformationFAQ The Mitacs Globalink Research Award (GRA) supports research collaborations between Canada and select partner organizations and eligible countries and regions. Under the joint supervision of a home and host professor, successful senior undergraduate students, graduate students, as well as postdoctoral fellows will receive a $6,000 research award to conduct a 12- to 24-week research project in the other country. Awards are offered in partnership with Mitacs’s Canadian academic partners (and, in some cases, with Mitacs’s international partners) and are subject to available funding.   Program Overview Applicants (student or postdoctoral fellow, home and host supervisors) submit application to partner organization or to Mitacs.  Within 12 weeks of submission, Mitacs will contact participants about the outcome of the application. Travel must take place within a year from the date of the outcome. The intern provides the completed Mitacs Code of Conduct and Ethics and International Pre-Departure forms. Mitacs forwards the Globalink Research Award funds to the Canadian institution. In some cases, interns may receive a portion of the funds from Mitacs’s partner organization.  The intern departs to the destination and begins the research project. Upon project completion, the intern submits a final report that summarizes the project. All participants (student or postdoctoral fellow, home and host supervisors) submit a final survey.  International partner collaborations Mitacs works with international partners to deliver the Globalink Research Award in the countries and regions listed below. Please refer to the ‘International Partners Information’ tab for partner-specific information. Belgium Wallonie-Bruxelles International Brazil Fundação Araucária Foundation  China China Science and Technology Exchange Center (CSTEC) - Application intake is on pause until further notice European Union Travel to other EU countries (not listed here) only where projects are a part of the Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) RISE program  France École Polytechnique France-Canada Research Funds Consortium (FCRF) French Embassy in Canada - Application intake is on pause until further notice Institut national de recherche en sciences et technologies du numérique (Inria) Université de Bordeaux Université Grenoble Alpes  Université de Lorraine Germany GSI Heavy Ion Institute (Helmholtz Association) Forschungszentrum Jülich (Helmholtz Association) Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) Max Planck Society National Research Council and Aachen University (inbound to Canada only)  India Shastri Indo-Canadian Institute - Application intake is on pause until further notice Israel Council for Higher Education (CHE) Japan Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS)  Korea National Research Foundation of Korea Mexico Secretaría de Educación Pública (SEP) Universidad Technologica El Retono (UTR) Singapore National Research Foundation of Singapore / AI Singapore (AISG)  South Africa National Research Foundation South Africa (NRF South Africa) - Application intake is on pause until further notice Taiwan National Cheng Kung University, Global Research and Industry Alliance (NCKU GLORIA)  Tunisia MedTech United Kingdom UK Research and Innovation Other eligible countries and regions The program supports travel and research between Canada and the following countries and regions:  Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hong Kong Hungary India Iran (Travel to Canada only) Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latvia Lebanon (Travel to Canada only) Lithuania  Luxembourg Macau Malaysia Malta Mexico Morocco Netherlands New Zealand Poland Portugal Romania Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Tunisia Ukraine United Kingdom United States   *The information above is subject to change. Contact international@mitacs.ca for more information.   Students and postdoctoral fellows Must be registered as full-time senior undergraduates, graduate students, or postdoctoral fellows at an eligible Canadian institution or eligible international institution and remain as such throughout their Globalink Research Award Undergraduate applicants completing their first post-secondary degree must have completed their second year of studies prior to departure. All applicants enrolled in an undergraduate degree must have maintained a B average in their two most recent semesters prior to application. This average can be cumulative over the two semesters Postdoctoral fellows may apply if their date of graduation from a PhD program is no more than five years prior to the proposed start date of the research project and they have postdoctoral status at an eligible institution  Cannot undertake a research project at an institution where they have previously completed a degree Cannot undertake a research project in a country where they hold citizenship 	 Permanent residents or citizens of Canada who are enrolled in an eligible country other than Canada and who wish to do a project in Canada are eligible to apply  Permanent residents or citizens of Canada who are enrolled in a Canadian institution and who hold citizenship in an eligible country may apply to do a project there Must be the legal age of majority in Canada (18 years of age or older) Must meet travel requirements for their intended destination, including visa and/or immigration requirements and associated documentation  Cannot hold more than one Globalink Research Award per academic lifetime  Cannot have previously held a Mitacs-JSPS Summer Program award  Please refer to the ‘International Partners Information’ tab for partner-specific eligibility requirements. Supervising professors Must hold a faculty position at an eligible university  Must be eligible to supervise graduate students Supervisors at Canadian institutions: Must be eligible to hold Tri-Agency funding   Eligible countries and regions Below is a list of all eligible countries and regions for which Globalink Research Award (GRA) proposals are accepted. For a list of Mitacs’s GRA international partners, please refer to the ‘International Partners Information’ tab for more specific eligibility requirements. The program supports travel and research between Canada and the following countries and regions:  Argentina Australia Austria Belgium Brazil Bulgaria Chile China Colombia Croatia Cyprus Czech Republic Denmark Estonia Finland France Germany Greece Hong Kong Hungary India Iran (Travel to Canada only) Ireland Israel Italy Japan Korea Latvia Lebanon (Travel to Canada only) Lithuania  Luxembourg Macau Malaysia Malta Mexico Morocco Netherlands New Zealand Poland Portugal Romania Singapore Slovakia Slovenia South Africa Spain Sweden Switzerland Taiwan Tunisia Ukraine United Kingdom United States Please note the application process may vary depending on the Canadian university and the international partner. Please check with your local Business Development representative to determine if your project fits the funding requirements for your institution or an international partner and to request an application package.  Awards are offered in partnership with Mitacs’s academic partners (and in some cases with Mitacs’s international partners) and are subject to available funding.  Application process  1. Review all eligibility and award guidelines from Mitacs, the international partner, and the Canadian institution.   2. Participants connect with one another to discuss project interest. Please note that Mitacs cannot connect interested applicants.  3. Academic supervisors at Canadian institutions obtain endorsement from the Canadian institution before preparing the application. Please contact your local Mitacs Business Development representative for more information on what kind of endorsement is required for your project.   Projects that are being proposed with a Mitacs international partner do not require co-funding from the Canadian university. The Vice President Research (VPR) or designate signature is not required. Projects that are being proposed without a Mitacs international partner must be co-funded by the Canadian institution that must contribute $2000 towards the Globalink Research Award. The Vice President Research (VPR) or designate signature is required. The Office of Research Services (ORS) or designate signature will be required on all completed applications. Applicants should allow 1-3 weeks to obtain the appropriate signatures.  4. Complete the application package: in addition to completing all the fields in the application form, applicants will be required to submit CVs, letters of support, and a research proposal. Additional information will be provided in the application package. 5. Submit your complete application package:  For projects conducted outside of Canada, academic supervisors at Canadian institutions must submit the complete application package by email to their local Mitacs Business Development representative For projects conducted in Canada, participants must submit the complete application directly to the international partner organization Please refer to the ‘International Partners Information’ tab for partner-specific information. All parties involved with the Mitacs Globalink program must comply with Mitacs’s Research Ethics Policy and other research integrity policies at the home and host institutions.    All parties involved with Mitacs programs should review the following policy statement and guidelines provided by Innovation, Science and Economic Development Canada (ISED) and the Government of Canada:  ISED "Policy Statement on Research Security and COVID-19" Government of Canada “Safeguarding Your Research” Portal Intern's responsibilities Make all necessary preparations for travel abroad with the appropriate institution office(s)  Obtain appropriate visa, work permit or other immigration documentation required for the destination  Attend any mandatory sessions as required by the home institution  Work full-time on the research project (at least 75% abroad, and up to 25% at the home institution)  Submit a final report and exit survey to Mitacs at the end of the project Host supervisor’s responsibilities Adhere to institutional policies for visiting researchers  Provide ongoing direction and research support to the intern prior to and during the research project  Advise the intern on appropriate travel arrangements and accommodation  Provide the intern with any necessary documentation to support the visa application  Ensure the intern has appropriate lab and/or office space and resources during the research project Submit an exit survey and sign the final report prepared by the intern  Home supervisor’s responsibilities Adhere to institutional policies for research abroad  Provide ongoing direction and research support to the participant prior to and during the research project  Submit an exit survey and sign the final report prepared by the participant  Additional responsibilities of the Canadian institution and supervisor In addition to the above, the Canadian supervisors and institutions – whether home or host – have additional responsibilities, specifically: Support interns with the necessary preparations for travel abroad (institutional travel policy, immigration application support)  Assume fiduciary responsibility for the Mitacs grant Adjudication The Mitacs Globalink Research Award is competitive with limited awards available. All applications will undergo review by an interdisciplinary team. Proposals will be adjudicated based on the following criteria:  Quality of the research proposal Level of supervision and mentorship committed by the host supervisor Strength of recommendation by the home supervisor Relevance to society and industry Expected benefit to Canada Once applications are reviewed, outcome letters are typically issued 10-12 weeks after submission that provide the outcome of the review process and outline next steps.  What is eligible research? Globalink Research Award Adjudication Guide Mitacs Ethical Conduct Policy for Research Involving Human Subjects Mitacs Ethical Conduct Policy for Research Involving Animals Mitacs Policy Statement on Environmental Review Mitacs Conflict of Interest Policy Mitacs Conflict of Interest Declaration Mitacs Policy on Research Integrity Funding Projects must begin within one year of the outcome letter being issued Interns must submit the International Pre-departure and Code of Conduct forms, and confirm their project dates in order to receive the award letter  Interns cannot travel until Mitacs has issued both an outcome and award letter  Approved recipients will receive funds to support intern travel and accommodation expenses, research-related expenses, and stipend. Mitacs funds will be sent to the Canadian institution’s Office of Research Services (or equivalent) and administered as a research grant in the Canadian supervisor’s name. Some awards are sponsored in part by one of Mitacs’s international partners and funding amounts may vary.   Where awards are partially funded by one of Mitacs’s international partners, interns may receive funds directly through the partner. Where applicable, the outcome letter will provide applicants with instructions for accessing partner funds. Mitacs funds must be spent according to the budget in the application and Tri-Agency eligible expenses. See Mitacs use of funds page for details of eligible expenses for Mitacs programs. Funding is based on a project duration of 12 weeks, though projects durations of up to 24 weeks are acceptable. Applicants are encouraged to seek support from other funding sources for longer durations and use prudence when allocating funds to travel and accommodations. Deliverables The following deliverables must be submitted to Mitacs no later than one month after the project concludes: A final report that summarizes the project: the intern is responsible for drafting the final report and securing approval and signatures from the participating supervisors Exit survey from the student Exit survey from the home academic supervisor Exit survey from the host academic supervisor Intellectual Property Mitacs does not claim any ownership of Intellectual Property developed through research projects and internships that are funded It is recommended that the participating organizations and institutions undertaking a research collaboration through Mitacs-funded projects come to a mutual understanding on the Intellectual Property implications of the project(s) Belgium: Wallonie-Bruxelles International (WBI) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time PhD students, postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: $6,000  Eligible Institutions: Université catholique de Louvain Université libre de Bruxelles Université de Liège Université de Mons Université de Namur Université Saint-Louis – Bruxelles  Other requirements (travel to Canada): Participants must be from the French Community of Belgium (Wallonia-Brussels Federation)   Research strengths or priorities: Biotech and health; mechanical engineering; transport and Logistics; aeronautics and space; chemical engineering and sustainable materials; digital innovation  Submission:  Travel to Canada: Submit to WBI Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission:  Travel to Canada: 	For travel planned from February: October 1st. 	For travel planned from June: February 1st. 	For travel planned from October: May 1st. Travel from Canada: open all year  Website: Wallonie-Bruxelles International Brazil: Fundação Araucária Foundation Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time senior undergraduates, master’s and PhD students, or postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible Institutions: Centro Universitário de Maringá – UNICESUMAR Instituto Federal do Paraná – IFPR Pontifícia Universidade Católica do Paraná – PUC Universidade Estadual de Londrina – UEL Universidade Estadual de Maringá – UEM Universidade Estadual de Ponta Grossa – UEPG Universidade Estadual do Centro-Oeste – UNICENTRO Universidade Estadual do Norte do Paraná – UENP Universidade Estadual do Oeste do Paraná – UNIOESTE Universidade Estadual do Paraná – UNESPAR Universidade Federal da Fronteira do Sul – UFFS Universidade Federal da Integração Latino-Americana – UNILA Universidade Federal do Paraná – UFPR Universidade Positivo Universidade Tecnológica Federal do Paraná – UTFPR Universidade Tuiuti do Paraná  Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines, but with a focus on:  Agricultural technology  Clean tech  Submission: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: Fundação Araucária Foundation   China: China Science and Technology Exchange Center (CSTEC) - Application intake is on pause until further notice Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award:  Travel to Canada: $12,000 Travel from Canada: $6,000  Eligible institutions: All universities in mainland China. Research institutions are tentative, may require 'approval' on a case-by-case basis  Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission:   Travel to Canada: submit to CSTEC Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative Call dates or open all year for submission:  Only through calls, dates TBD  Website: China Science and Technology Exchange Center (CSTEC) European Union: Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) RISE  Travel direction: Travel from Canada only  Intern level: Full-time master’s and PhD students or postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: All European Union universities and research institutes  Other requirements: Open to successful MSCA RISE Award recipients  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: Marie Sklodowska-Curie Actions (MSCA) RISE France: École Polytechnique Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time senior undergraduates, master’s and PhD students, or postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: École Polytechnique   Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities:   Engineering  Artificial Intelligence Quantum technologies Data science  Submission:   Travel to Canada: submit to École Polytechnique Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: École Polytechnique  France: France-Canada Research Funds Consortium (FCRF) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time senior undergraduates, master’s and PhD students, or postdoctoral Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: All institutions covered by the FCRF program   Other requirements: Must be a recipient of FCRF Award  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: France-Canada Research Funds Consortium (FCRF) France: French Embassy in Canada - Application intake is on pause until further notice Travel direction: Travel from Canada only  Intern level: Full-time senior undergraduates, master’s and PhD students, or postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: All universities in France   Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: French Embassy in Canada France: Institut national de recherche en sciences et technologies du numérique (Inria) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level:   Travel to Canada: Full-time PhD students Travel from Canada: Full-time master’s or PhD students  Duration: 16-24 weeks  Award:   Travel to Canada: approximately $9,000 to $12,300 Travel from Canada: approximately $6,200 to $7,800  Eligible institutions: Centres de recherche INRIA:  Bordeaux Sud-Ouest Grenoble Rhône Alpes Lille - Nord Europe Centre Inria Nancy - Grand Est Paris Rennes - Bretagne Atlantique Sophia Antipolis - Méditerranée Saclay - Île-de-France  Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities:   Applied mathematics, computation and simulation Algorithmics, programming, software and architecture Networks, systems and services, distributed computing Perception, cognition and software engineering Digital health, biology and earth Artificial intelligence   Submission:   Travel to Canada: submit to Inria Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: Institut national de recherche en sciences et technologies du numérique (Inria) France: Université de Bordeaux Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada Intern level:   Travel to Canada: full-time master’s and PhD students or postdoctoral fellows Travel from Canada: full-time senior undergraduate, master’s and PhD students or postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: Université de Bordeaux   Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities:   UN's SDGs Environment and climate Technologies for health Materials of the future Neuroscience Digital systems Public health   Submission:  Travel to Canada: submit to Université de Bordeaux Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission:   Travel to Canada: November 1 to December 15, 2021 Travel from Canada: open all year Website: Université de Bordeaux   France: Université de Grenoble Alpes (UGA) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level:   Travel to Canada: full-time master’s and PhD students or postdoctoral fellows Travel from Canada: full-time senior undergraduate, Masters and PhD students or postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: Université de Grenoble Alpes (UGA)  Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities:   AI Sustainable planet and society Health Wellbeing and technology  Submission:  Travel to Canada: submit to Université de Grenoble Alpes Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission:   Travel to Canada: call dates TBD Travel from Canada: open all year   Website: Université Grenoble Alpes France: Université de Lorraine Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level:   Travel to Canada: full-time master’s and PhD students or postdoctoral fellows Travel from Canada: full-time senior undergraduate, master’s and PhD students or postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: Université de Lorraine   Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities:   Complete value chain of materials Sustainable management of resources The environment/forestry Energy transition Clean tech The green economy Digital world Public health and ageing AI and digital humanities  Submission:  Travel to Canada: Submit to Université de Lorraine Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year   Website: Université de Lorraine Germany: GSI Heavy Ion Institute (Helmholtz Association) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada Intern level: Full-time PhD students and postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions:   GSI Helmholtzzentrum fuer Schwerionenforschung GmbH Darmstadt Helmholtz Institute Mainz Helmholtz Institute Jena Research strengths or priorities: Open to all disciplines, focus on Physical Sciences Submission:   Travel to Canada: submit to GSI Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: GSI Germany: Forschungszentrum Jülich (FZJ Helmholtz Association) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time PhD students and postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions:   Ernst Ruska-Centre for Microscopy and Spectroscopy with Electrons (ER-C) Institute for Advanced Simulation (IAS) Jülich Supercomputing Centre (JSC) Institute of Bio- and Geosciences (IBG) Institute of Biological Information Processing (IBI) Institute of Energy and Climate Research (IEK) Institute of Neuroscience and Medicine (INM) Jülich Centre for Neutron Science (JCNS) Nuclear Physics Institute (IKP) Peter Grünberg Institute (PGI) Central Institute for Engineering, Electronics and Analytics (ZEA)   Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines, but with a focus on:  Information Energy Bioeconomy  Submission:   Travel to Canada: submit to Julich Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: Forschungszentrum Jülich (FZJ Helmholtz Association)  Germany: Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time PhD students and postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: KIT departments and KIT divisions  Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission:   Travel to Canada: submit to KIT Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission:   Travel to Canada: 2 calls twice a year. Next deadline: August 20, 2021 Travel from Canada: open all year  Website: Karlsruhe Institute of Technology (KIT) Germany: RWTH-Aachen University-National Research Council of Canada (NRC) Travel direction: Travel to Canada only   Intern level: Full-time master’s and PhD students   Duration: 24-48 weeks  Award: $12,000  Eligible institutions: RWTH Aachen University, NRC Collaboration Centres working with Canadian universities    Other requirements: Participant must be enrolled as a student at RWTH Aachen University. The project is required to come under an NRC Challenge or Supercluster Program  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: NRC-MITACS-RWTH Globalink Research Award Program  Germany/USA/Luxembourg/Italy/The Netherlands: Max Planck Society Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada Intern level: Full-time PhD students and postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions:  All Max Planck Institutes in Germany and abroad are eligible - see https://www.mpg.de/institutes?letter=E&tab=institutes Research strengths or priorities: Open to all disciplines, focus on Biomedical Chemistry Physics Technology disciplines Social sciences and humanities Submission:   Travel to Canada: submit to Max Planck Society Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year  Website: Max Planck Society India: Shastri Indo Canadian Institute (SICI) - Application intake is on pause until further notice Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time master's and PhD students, and postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: $6,000   Eligible institutions: Full list of eligible Indian institutions available here. Full list of Canadian eligible universities available here.   Other requirements: The chosen Canadian and Indian institutions must both be SICI eligible.   Research strengths or priorities: Open to all disciplines   Submission:  Travel to Canada: Submit to SICI Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year   Website: SICI Israel: Council for Higher Education Israel (CHE Israel) Travel direction: Travel to Canada Intern level: Full-time PhD students and postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 12-24 weeks  Award: $6,000  Eligible institutions: All universities in Israel Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: Open to all disciplines   Submission: submit to CHE Call dates or open all year for submission: December 30 2021 Website: Council for Higher Education (CHE) Japan: Japan Society for the Promotion of Science (JSPS) Travel direction: Travel from Canada only  Intern level: Full-time master’s and PhD students and postdoctoral fellows  Duration: 9 weeks  Award: $3,000 CAD + 534,000 yen + flight costs Eligible institutions: All universities and research institutes in Japan based on JSPS projects  Other requirements: Participants must be Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission: Call dates TBD  Website: JSPS website + Mitacs-JSPS website Korea: National Research Foundation (NRF) Korea Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full time master’s and PhD students, or postdoctoral fellows Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: Travel to Canada: $9,000 to $15,000 (approximately) Travel from Canada: $6,000 Eligible institutions: All universities in Korea  Other requirements: Participants applying to Canada must be Korean citizens or permanent residents of Korea. Participants applying from Canada must be Canadian citizens or permanent residents of Canada  Research strengths or priorities: STEM fields  Submission:  Travel to Canada: Submit to NRF Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission:   Travel to Canada: January 2021 to March 2, 2021 Travel from Canada: Open all year   Website: National Research Foundation of Korea Mexico: Secretaría de Educación Pública (SEP) Travel direction: Travel from Canada  Intern level: Full time Senior Undergraduate, Master's or PhD students Duration: 12-24 weeks Award: $6,000    Eligible institutions: All public universities in Mexico Other requirements: Applicants must have a certificate of Spanish proficiency (in cases where the project language is Spanish) Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines Submission: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year   Website: Secretaría de Educación Pública Mexico: Universidad Technologica El Retono (UTR) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: TBC Duration: 12-24 weeks Award: $6,000    Eligible institutions:  Universidad Politécnica de Aguascalientes Universidad Tecnológica de Aguascalientes Universidad Tecnológica del Norte de Aguascalientes Universidad Tecnológica Metropolitana de Aguascalientes Universidad Tecnológica de Calvillo Universidad Tecnológica El Retoño Instituto Tecnológico de Aguascalientes Research strengths or priorities: Open to all disciplines Submission:  Travel to Canada: submit to UTR Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year   Website: Universidad Tecnológica El Retoño Singapore: National Research Foundation (NRF-Singapore) / AISG Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time master’s, PhD or postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks (but 24 weeks strongly preferred)  Award: $12,000    Eligible institutions: All universities in Singapore  Other requirements: N/A Research strengths or priorities:  Trustworthy and explainable AI Privacy aware AI Resource efficient AI Collaborative AI Continuous learning AI Capability clusters  Submission:  Travel to Canada: Submit to Mitacs through Mitacs calls only Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs, however it should follow these steps: 	 Step 1: An academic supervisor from Canada expresses their interest in a specific project to AISG and identifies an intern to send to Singapore. The academic supervisor contacts AISG: exchangeprogramme@aisingapore.org Step 2: AISG will assist in matching the intern with a professor in Singapore for the requested project Step 3: Once a project and a match are agreed upon, the Canadian academic supervisor seeks endorsement from the Canadian university. Canadian academic supervisors can contact their local Mitacs Business Development representative for more information on how to obtain their university's endorsement. Step 4: Once the endorsement is given, the local Mitacs Business Development representative shares the application package and both academic supervisors (in Canada and in Singapore) fill out the application documents. Step 5: Once the application is completed and signed, it is submitted to Mitacs through the local Mitacs Business Development representative.  Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year   Website: AISG South Africa: National Research Council of South Africa (NRF SA) – application intake on pause until further notice Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time PhD students and postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks Award: $6,000    Eligible institutions: Cape Peninsula University of Technology Central University of Technology, Free State Tshwane University of Technology University of Cape Town University of Fort Hare University of Johannesburg University of KwaZulu-Natal University of Limpopo University of Mpumalanga University of Pretoria University of South Africa University of the Free State University of the Western Cape University of the Witwatersrand University of Venda University of Zululand Vaal University of Technology Walter Sisulu University of Technology Stellenbosch University Other requirements: Be a South African Citizen or permanent resident, be an NRF-funded doctoral student or postdoctoral fellow for the full duration of the Mitacs award Research strengths or priorities: Open to all disciplines Submission:  Travel to Canada: submit to National Research Council of South Africa (NRF SA) Travel from Canada: submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative Call dates or open all year for submission: Call dates TBD  Website: National Research Foundation Taiwan: National Cheng Kung University, Global Research and Industry Alliance (NCKU GLORIA) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time master’s, PhD students or postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: $6,000   Eligible institutions: National Cheng Kung University  Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines   Submission:  Travel to Canada: Submit to NCKU Gloria Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year   Website: NCKU Gloria Tunisia: Mediterranean Institute of Technology (MedTech) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time master’s and PhD students, or postdoctoral fellows   Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: $6,000   Eligible institutions: MedTech and Mediterranean School of Business  Other requirements: N/A  Research strengths or priorities: Engineering   Submission:  Travel to Canada: Submit to MedTech  Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative  Call dates or open all year for submission: Open all year   Website: Mediterranean Institute of Technology  United Kingdom: UK Research and Innovation (UKRI) Travel direction: Travel to Canada and travel from Canada  Intern level: Full-time PhD students    Duration: 12-24 weeks   Award: Travel to Canada: $22,000 (approximately) Travel from Canada: $6,000 Eligible institutions: All universities in the UK   Other requirements (travel to Canada): Doctoral students must be funded by UKRI, or one of its constituent research councils  Research strengths or priorities: All disciplines  Submission:   Travel to Canada: Submit to UKRI  Travel from Canada: Submit to Mitacs through the local Mitacs representative   Call dates or open all year for submission:  Travel to Canada: call dates TBD  Travel from Canada: open all year   Website: UKRI (information about “travel to Canada” only) If you have a question on a specific international partner, please contact Étienne Pineault (epineault@mitacs.ca). For other questions, please contact the Local Mitacs representative. Eligibility What is considered an eligible Canadian institution? An eligible Canadian institution is one that has signed a GRA agreement with Mitacs. Currently, this includes all Canadian universities and some Canadian research institutions. Please contact your local Mitacs Business Development representative to determine Canadian institution eligibility. Are undergraduate students eligible for a Mitacs Globalink Research Award? Yes. Undergraduate students are eligible provided they: Have finished their second year of studies prior to departure Remain enrolled full-time during the award Have maintained a B average during the previous two semesters Are postdoctoral fellows eligible for a Mitacs Globalink Research Award? Yes, if they received their PhD within five years of the project start date and if they have a postdoctoral fellow status at an eligible institution. Can I submit a project with multiple host and/or home institutions? Applicants can submit a project with a primary and secondary home or host supervisor. Note that: the primary host supervisor must be a professor at the institution where the project is conducted the primary home supervisor must be a professor at the intern’s home institution  Can the home supervisor be a professor affiliated to an institution other than the intern's home institution? The home supervisor should be affiliated to the institution where the student or postdoctoral fellow is enrolled full time. Supervisors at institutions other than the student or postdoctoral fellow’s institution can be added as secondary supervisors.  My country is not on the list of eligible countries. Is there another program that could fit my situation?  If your country does not appear on our list of eligible country, you are ineligible for the GRA program.   Are alumni of the RISE-Globalink Research Internship eligible for a Mitacs Globalink Research Award?  Yes. If you were a recipient of the RISE-GRI program, you are still eligible to apply for a Globalink Research Award. Please note that you cannot hold both these awards concurrently; you must have completed one project in order to start on the next. Can I hold both a Mitacs Globalink Research Award and a studentship or fellowship?  No, participants cannot simultaneously hold a Globalink Research Award and another Mitacs award. Participants who hold another Mitacs award must complete it prior to receiving a Globalink Research Award.   At the time of submitting an application, if applicants are also recipients of other non-Mitacs awards, scholarships, or fellowships, they must list all funding sources in their proposal. Each participant is responsible for complying with rules and regulations of their various sources of funding.  Can I be eligible for GRA more than once? No, participants may only hold one GRA in their lifetime.   Before you apply Can Mitacs help me find a host professor? No. Students and postdoctoral fellows are responsible for identifying a home and host academic supervisor. You may wish to begin by asking your home supervisor to assist you.  Do I need the Canadian institution endorsement for an application? Yes, Canadian academic supervisors must obtain endorsement from the Canadian institution before preparing the application (the VPR, or their appropriate representative, will have to sign on the completed application).Canadian academic supervisors can contact their local Mitacs Business Development representative for more information on how to obtain their institution’s endorsement.   How do I get the application package and obtain the Canadian VPR endorsement?   Please contact your local Business Development representative for the application package and instructions on how to obtain the Canadian VPR endorsement.   Does a Canadian institution need to co-fund my project? Unless otherwise specified in a call for proposals, all projects must be co-funded by the Canadian institution that must contribute $2000 toward the Globalink Research Award.  Can a home and/or host supervisor support concurrent Mitacs Globalink Research Awards? Yes, both supervisors can support multiple awards. Does Mitacs provide funding for the host academic supervisor? No, the Globalink Research Award only supports intern travel and accommodation expenses, research-related expenses, and stipend. What status will I have at my home institution while I am in my host country?  Interns must maintain full-time student or postdoctoral status at their home institution during their time abroad. Who owns any intellectual property generated during a research project? Mitacs does not claim any ownership of Intellectual Property developed through research projects and internships that are funded. It is recommended that the participating organizations and institutions undertaking a research collaboration through Mitacs-funded projects come to a mutual understanding on the Intellectual Property implications of the project(s). Preparing your application When should I submit an application?  We accept applications for the Globalink Research Award on an ongoing basis. However, we recommend applicants to apply at least 16 weeks ahead of their planned start date. This is because it typically takes 10-12 weeks for Mitacs to communicate results to the applicants, followed by a few weeks to process the award, and for the applicants to complete their pre-departure preparations. I will be working with two supervisors at my host institution. What should I include in my application? You will need to identify a primary supervisor, with whom you will work more closely, and a secondary supervisor. If your secondary supervisor is taking on any of the host supervisor responsibilities as outlined in our Award Guidelines), then your application should include the following: The secondary supervisor’s contact details The secondary supervisor’s signature A letter of support from the secondary supervisor The secondary supervisor’s CV If professors other than your primary supervisor are acting as collaborators on the project, but are not taking on any significant supervisory roles, they are not required to be listed on the application form. What should my supervisors include in their letters of support? A letter of support is required from each named supervisor on the application (home and host). Each letter of support must: Be written on the institutional letterhead in English or French and signed by the supervisor  Include the supervisor’s contact details, title, department affiliation Outline the supervisor’s support for the participant and project Describe the participant's academic and research qualities and ability to complete the project After you apply I applied for the Globalink Research Award. When will I receive my results? Outcome letters are typically issued 10-12 weeks after application submission. If your application is approved, you must submit the Mitacs International Pre-Departure and Code of Conduct forms, and confirm your project dates in order to receive the award letter. Interns cannot travel until Mitacs has issued both an outcome and award letter.  Can I travel to my host country before receiving the result of my application? No. Interns must not begin their travel preparations until they have received both an outcome letter and award letter from Mitacs. Projects must begin within one year of the outcome letter being issued.  When will my Globalink Research Award funds be available? The Globalink Research Award is $6,000. Mitacs will provide its portion of the research grant to the Canadian institution once all necessary documentation has been received at Mitacs. Please note that policies regarding the distribution of the research grant can vary according to the Canadian institution’s policies and, in some cases, Mitacs’s international partners’ policies. Please allow approximately two weeks for Mitacs to process funding. Where applicable, Mitacs’s outcome letters will provide instructions for accessing partner funds. Can Mitacs provide guidance to applicants regarding obtaining visas and work permits (either for Canada or abroad)? Unfortunately, Mitacs cannot advise interns on immigration procedures and documentation. You should contact the relevant consulate or embassy of your host country as soon as possible to determine the appropriate immigration channel.   Globalink Research Award Thematic Call The call for applications is now open! Professors can submit projects by December 1, 2021, at 5 p.m. PT. Read More Join a thriving innovation ecosystem. Subscribe now Sign Up About Mitacs Events Training Contact Us Twitter Facebook LinkedIn Follow us on Instagram © Copyright 2021, Mitacs. All rights reserved. Privacy Statement