How to write an annotated bibliography · Help & Writing · Concordia University Library Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resources Campus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) What's New Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Concordia University Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Directories Hours A-Z Maps Library Library Research Skills Tutorial Ask a Librarian   				Log into ...  My Library Account (Sofia) View checkouts, fees, place requests and more Interlibrary loans (Colombo) Request books from external libraries Zotero Manage your citations and create bibliographies BrowZine Browse & read journals through a friendly interface Article/chapter scan Request a PDF of an article/chapter we have in our physical collection Course reserves Online course readings Spectrum Deposit a thesis or article WebPrint Upload documents to print with DPrint Library hours Ask a librarian A-Z Find Sofia Discovery tool Databases by subject Course Reserves E-journals Browse & read journals (BrowZine) Article/chapter scan Intercampus delivery of bound periodicals/microforms Interlibrary Loans (Colombo) Spectrum Research Repository Special Collections Additional resources & services Help & how-to Subject & course guides Loans & Returns (Circulation) General guides for users Finding... Evaluating... Writing... Citing... Using... Workshops Ask a librarian Alumni Research Skills Tutorial Research support Bibliometrics & research impact guide Concordia University Press Copyright guide Copyright guide for thesis preparation Digital scholarship Open Access ORCID at Concordia Research data management guide Special Collections Spectrum Research Repository How to get published speaker series Technology Borrow (laptops, tablets, equipment) Connect (netname, Wi-Fi, guest accounts) Desktop computers, software & availability maps Group study, presentation practice & classrooms Printers, copiers & scanners Technology Sandbox Visualization Studio Locations & hours Webster Library Vanier Library Grey Nuns Reading Room Book a group study room/scanner Study spaces Floor plans Room booking for academic events About the library News Events Exhibitions Librarians & staff University Librarian Work with us Memberships & collaborations Indigenous Student Librarian program Wikipedian in residence Researcher-in-Residence Feedback & improvement Annual reports & fast facts Strategic Plan 2016/21 Library Services Fund Giving to the Library Webster Transformation blog Policies & Code of Conduct The Campaign for Concordia Library Research Skills Tutorial 								 Log into... My Library account (Sofia) Interlibrary loans Zotero BrowZine Article/chapter scan Course reserves Spectrum WebPrint 								 Quick links Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resources Campus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) What's New Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Website to search  Sofia 						  Library 						  Concordia 						 Search Search Concordia.ca   /   Library   /   Help & how-to   /   Writing   /   how to write an annotated bibliography How to write an annotated bibliography On this page What is an annotated bibliography?General guidelinesSample entries from annotated bibliographies See also How to write a book review & a book report How to write a literature review How to write a research paper What is an annotated bibliography? An annotated bibliography is a list of the sources (e.g. books, journal articles, etc.) that you used to research a topic in preparation for writing a term paper. In an annotated bibliography, each source in the list is followed by a brief descriptive and evaluative paragraph of 4-5 sentences (approx. 150 words or more), which can also include its relevance to your paper topic. An annotated bibliography should inform the reader by providing a clear indication of each source's relevancy, accuracy and quality. General guidelines Carefully read the course assignment instructions. If you are still unclear, check with your professor on the type of annotated bibliography that is required for the assignment. Main Types of Annotated Bibliographies: Summary/descriptive – provides a concise overview of the main arguments, evidence presented, and conclusions Critical/evaluative – in addition to providing an overview, analyzes the content; comments on the strengths and weaknesses of the arguments, evidence, and conclusions; explains the usefulness of the source for your research topic. Combination - most annotated bibliography assignments require that you include both an overview and evaluative comments. Most annotated bibliographies organize sources alphabetically by the first author's last name. Consistently follow the rules of the style guide (APA, MLA, Chicago, Other Guides) that is indicated in your course assignment instructions; the style guide will detail what information to include for each type of source and how it should be formatted. For more detailed guidelines on writing an annotated bibliography, please refer to the following: Carleton University Libraries: Writing an Annotated Bibliography (video) Purdue Online Writing Lab (OWL): Annotated Bibliographies University of Alberta Libraries: Annotated Bibliographies University of Toronto: Writing an Annotated Bibliography Sample entries from annotated bibliographies Summary/descriptive type (in APA style) Sampson, R. J., Raudenbush, S. W., & Earls, F. (1997). Neighborhoods and violent crime: A multilevel study of collective efficacy. Science, 277, 918–924. 				Analysis of data gathered by the Project on Human Development in Chicago Neighborhoods indicates that although racial and socioeconomic inequalities are relevant factors, they are not the singular or primary influences on neighborhood crime. Findings suggest that neighborhood violence is predicted by measures of informal social control, social cohesion and trust, and perceptions of violence. Consistent with the social organization model, collective efficacy is shown to mediate the influence of residential stability in predicting neighborhood violence. Note: the example above is taken from: Brossoie, N., Graham, B., & Lee, S. (2005). Families and communities: An annotated bibliography. Family Relations: An Interdisciplinary Journal of Applied Family Studies, 54(5), 666-675. doi:10.1111/j.1741-3729.2005.00350.x Other sample entries Purdue Online Writing Center (OWL) provides sample entries for the three main types of annotated bibliographies using APA, MLA, and Chicago styles: summary/descriptive, critical/evaluative, and combination. For more information, ask a librarian. Updated: Friday 29 May 2020 Back to top CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY - 				Locations & phone numbers Home Find Help & how-to Research support Technology Locations & hours About the Library Undergraduate students Graduate students Students with disabilities Faculty Alumni Administrative staff Support staff External community Webster Library 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, 												Quebec, 												Canada H3G 1M8 See on SGW Campus map Vanier Library 7141 Sherbrooke St. W. Montreal, 												Quebec, 												Canada H4B 1R6 See on Loyola Campus map facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Feedback Provide feedback Feedback forms Close Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. Give feedback about the Library's spaces, services, and/or collections Get help with my research, course work, or report a broken link Share this page Concordia University Library Locations & phone numbers Webster Library 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, 						Quebec, 						Canada H3G 1M8 See on SGW Campus map Vanier Library 7141 Sherbrooke St. W. Montreal, 						Quebec, 						Canada H4B 1R6 See on Loyola Campus map Feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University