Hydro-Québec TransÉnergie et Équipement Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu All sites News Contact us Power outages Français Log-in 						 TransÉnergie et Équipement Launch search Menu Log-in Home Connecting to Hydro-Québec’s system System modeling Notice regarding tie lines Notices by the Régie de l’énergie Power transmission Over the years, Hydro‑Québec has built a vast transmission system and developed cutting-edge technologies to carry the output of its generating facilities, mainly located in northern regions, over very long distances to the major load centers in southern Québec and to neighboring markets. Today, this grid ranks among the most extensive in North America. Main grid supply in real time 0 MW 0 % This data is provided in real time. It is part of the open data we make accessible to third parties who may wish to use it within the scope of the energy transition. Reliability Coordinator for Québec Maintain the real-time operating reliability of the power transmission system within Québec. Planning the electricity of tomorrow Plan for future needs so that our facilities will ensure service reliability today and tomorrow. Safety, work and vegetation control near transmission lines Learn how to identify a transmission line. Obtain authorization to carry out work or a development under a transmission line. Everything you need to know about rights‑of‑way, which are cleared corridors under transmission lines that are necessary to ensure public safety and service reliability. Connecting to Hydro‑Québec’s system Specialized documentation for private or community‑based businesses that operate or plan to operate an electricity generating facility connected to Hydro‑Québec’s system. Modeling the transmission system Hydro-Québec TransÉnergie et Équipement operates the transmission system, marketing system capacity and managing power flows across Québec. Oasis: Electricity transmission marketing tool Access to webSmartOASIS, a platform used by many North American suppliers, including Hydro‑Québec, to market their electricity transmission services. Increasing awareness of the safety of tie lines Measures must be taken to ensure safety near international and interprovincial electricity transmission lines, as with all other transmission lines. Notices published by the Régie de l’énergie regarding the Transmission Provider’s operations List of the notices published by the Régie de l’énergie du Québec regarding the files presented by Hydro‑Québec as part of its electricity transmission operations. The Groupe – TransÉnergie et équipement, in its role as transmission provider (the “Transmission Provider”), is tasked with operating the transmission system, marketing system capacity in a non-discriminatory manner, in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, and managing power flows across Québec. In addition, its Direction – Contrôle des mouvements d’énergie et exploitation du réseau [system control and operations unit] acts as Reliability Coordinator for transmission systems in Québec. We operate the most extensive transmission system in North America 							Our system is characterized by very high voltage transmission lines that take electricity generated in large hydroelectric complexes concentrated in northern Québec to load 							centers in the south. The system includes: 						 34,000 km of transmission lines, of which a third is operated at very high voltage (735 kV or 735,000 volts) 533 substations (44 kV to 735 kV) 15 cross-border interconnections allowing power interchanges with the maritime provinces, Ontario and the U.S. Northeast 										Interconnection capacity: 										 Imports: 6,025 MW Exports: 7,974 MW Important links Link to main sections Residential Business Link to some of our sites About Energy Wise Security advice Newsroom Contact us Power outages Jobs* Our sites Newsletters Follow us Linkedin Youtube Facebook Instagram Twitter @hydroquebec Follow us to learn more about company news. 									 @hydro_customer Questions about your bill, electricity use or our services? 									 Apps Apple Store Google Store Voice Assistants Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996- 						2021. All rights reserved. * Web site in French only