Hydro-Québec | Home Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu All sites News Contact us Power outages Français Log-in Residential Business About Us Launch search For an alternative version of the menu below, you can access the sitemap. Display Menu Manage my account Customer Space Manage my account Take advantage of our onlineservices See your balance, due date and payment history for all your accounts. Report a change of address online. Update your communication preferences. Use our tools to understand your electricity use. …and more! Log in Create my Customer Space Click to obtain more informations about your customer space What will you need? Contract holder: Your most recent bill. Proxy holder or account manager: A recent bill of the account you manage. Account and billing Online billing Billing payment history Equalized payments plan Multiple account search tool Account manager Proxy or consent to disclosure Meters and meter-reading Understanding your bill What’s a kilowatthour? Rates Base rates Other rates Rate options Glossary Helping you understand your electricity rate Understanding power and power demand Service charges Deposit and payment guarantee Comparison of electricity prices Payment Paying your bill Pre authorized debit Online payment Options in case of payment difficulties Enter into a payment arrangement Confirm your payment About my electricity use My consumption profile New! Your consumption, by the hour. Dare to compare Home diagnostic Factors that influence consumption Breakdown of a household’s electricity use Tools to calculate consumption What you may not know about your electric devices Moving Change address Add address Remove address Become a customer Estimate a home’s electricity costs Successful move Remove or add a contract holder Manage rental Request for work Energy Wise Windows, heating and air conditioning Heating Air-conditioning Heat pumps ENERGY STAR® certified windows Electronic thermostats Central heating with electric thermal storage Geothermal systems Caulking Hot water Heating water ECOPEAK® water heaters Water- and energy-saving products Drain water heat recovery systems How to repair a leaky faucet How to check water flow rate How to install a showerhead Household appliances Household appliances ENERGY STAR® certified Household appliances How to turn off your fridge’s ice maker Electronics Home electronics Standby power consumption Game consoles Smart power bars ENERGY STAR® certified TVs How to choose an energy-efficient TV How to activate a computer’s standby mode Lighting Lighting LED bulbs LED holiday lights How to choose LED bulbs How to create your mood Pools and spas Pools and spas Pool heat pumps Solar pool covers Efficient pool pumps Pool filter timers Promotional offers Hydro-Québec offers Retail promotions Other offers and tax credits Building and renovating Thermal insulation Safety advice Residential I want to Enter into a payment arrangement Report a move or become a customer Sign up for Online Billing See my Consumption profile Make or track a request for work Promotions Equalized Payments Plan: 12 bills, one amount. Opt for flat-out fantastic monthly bills with the EPP. Opt for flat-out fantastic monthly bills with the EPP. Available online ad in the mobile app The outage tracker is quicker, more accurate and more practical than ever! The outage tracker is quicker, more accurate and more practical than ever! Enjoy an average of $124 in rewards. Hilo is making your rewards go up when the temperature goes down. Hilo is making your rewards go up when the temperature goes down. Important Notices Phishing emails and text messages are currently in circulation If you receive such a message, do not click on any links it may contain because they will take you to a fake website with the same look and feel as Hydro-Québec’s. In addition, Hydro-Québec never contacts its customers to request a credit card number or demand payment by credit card. Think you’ve been the victim of a phishing scam?Find out what to do COVID-19 pandemic: We’re here for you If you receive such a message, do not click on any links it may contain because they will take you to a fake website with the same look and feel as Hydro-Québec’s. In addition, Hydro-Québec never contacts its customers to request a credit card number or demand payment by credit card. Think you’ve been the victim of a phishing scam?Find out what to do COVID-19 pandemic: We’re here for you In recent months, we have worked hard to continue to provide reliable electricity service and support you during this particularly challenging period. We are sensitive to the fact that some customers may be experiencing financial difficulties. If this is the case for you, we encourage you to go to your Customer Space or call us to enter into a payment arrangement today. This will ensure that you continue to benefit from the suspension of administration charges. Enter into a payment arrangement online Please note that the application of administration charges for unpaid bills for all customers resumed on October 1, 2020. We have also reinstated collection activities, which can lead to the electricity service being disconnected when a bill is past due and no payment arrangement is made. Learn about the prevention measures we have introduced. We are also in close contact with our partners and our suppliers, who provide goods and services or work in one of our facilities. Health and safety are always top priorities at Hydro-Québec. Consequently, we will continue to keep you informed during this period, which has led to increased concerns for many of you. Class action regarding administrative charges – The credit request period ended on September 6, 2021 26,855 Quebecers took part in the consultation. See how our collective dreams are taking shape Online services without waiting Options in case of payment difficulties On a tight budget right now? Don’t think you can pay your bill on time? We can come up with a solution. Request for work Is vegetation growing too close to power lines? Do you need Hydro-Québec to carry out work? Make your request online and track its progress. Power outage info Is there an outage in your area? You can find out how big an area is affected and when service will be restored. View all our services Guides to help you make the right choices Are you interested in installing solar panels? See our Web site to learn more about PV solar power before you invest. Guided tours Discover feats of Québec engineering by visiting Hydro-Québec facilities. School groups are welcome. Safety reminders Learn to recognize the electrical hazards of power lines, trees and poles, as well as in and around the house! Energy for all Quebecers 61 hydropower generating stations 261,578 km of transmission and distribution lines 4.4 million customers News Sustainability Report 2020 Discover our 19th sustainability report. Once again, we describe our performance over the last year with respect to our main environmental, social, economic and governance challenges. Consult the Sustainability Report Important links Link to main sections Residential Business Link to some of our sites About Energy Wise Security advice Newsroom Contact us Power outages Jobs* Our sites Newsletters Follow us Linkedin Youtube Facebook Instagram Twitter @hydroquebec Follow us to learn more about company news. 									 @hydro_customer Questions about your bill, electricity use or our services? 									 Apps Apple Store Google Store Voice Assistants Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996- 						2021. All rights reserved. * Web site in French only