Hydro-Québec Business Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu All sites News Contact us Power outages Français Log-in 						 Residential Business About Us Launch search Show Menu Managing your account Business customer space Manage my account Take advantage of our online services See the balance, due date and payment history for each of your accounts. Opt for a secure way to pay your bills. Update your communication preferences. Use our tools to understand your electricity use. … and more! Log in Create my Customer Space* * Large-power customers: Talk to your commercial delegate to create your Customer Space. Rate L or LG customers (5,000 kW or more). Accounts and billing Online Billing Billing and Payment History Understanding your bill Multiple Account Management Equalized Payment Plan Account manager Consent to disclosure or proxy Meters and meter-reading Rates Base rates Other rates Rate options and conditions Glossary Helping you understand your electricity rate Understanding power and power demand Service charges Deposit and payment guarantee Comparison of electricity prices Paying your bill Pay in person or by mail Online payment Pre-authorized Debit Bank transfer Payment difficulties Your Consumption Profile Moving Change an address Add an address Remove an address Change account holder Request for work Request a connection Track a request for work Vegetation – Pruning and other work Developers Public lighting Servitudes Power quality Factors that influence power quality Consulting and expertise Signature Service Technical documentation Managing rental units Programs and tools Efficient Solutions Financial assistance calculator – Efficient Solutions Space for business partners Efficient Agricultural products Electricity Management Systems Technology and Business Demonstration Innovative Project Program Transitional Rules Tips and Tools Services Becoming a customer Setting up your business in Québec The advantages of hydropower Safety advice Business ImportantNotices Phishing emails and text messages are currently in circulation If you receive such a message, do not click on any links it may contain because they will take you to a fake website with the same look and feel as Hydro-Québec’s. In addition, Hydro-Québec never contacts its customers to request a credit card number or demand payment by credit card. Think you’ve been the victim of a phishing scam?Find out what to do COVID-19 pandemic: We’re here for you In recent months, we have worked hard to continue to provide reliable electricity service and support you during this particularly challenging period. As part of our commitment to contribute to Québec’s economic recovery, we will be resuming our system maintenance activities to serve you better. Please note that the application of administration charges for unpaid bills for all customers resumed on October 1, 2020. We have also reinstated collection activities, which can lead to the electricity service being disconnected when a bill is past due and no payment arrangement is made. We are sensitive to the fact that some customers may be experiencing financial difficulties. If this is the case for you, we encourage you to go to your Customer Space or call us to enter into a payment arrangement today. This will ensure that you continue to benefit from the suspension of administration charges. Enter into a payment arrangement online Learn about the prevention measures we have introduced. We are also in close contact with our partners and our suppliers, who provide goods and services or work in one of our facilities. Health and safety are always top priorities at Hydro-Québec. Consequently, we will continue to keep you informed during this period, which has led to increased concerns for many of you. I want to Sign up for Online Billing Sign up for Pre-authorized Debit Sign up for the Equalized Payments Plan Report a change of address Track a request for work Our clean energy is the perfect fit for your business strategies. ImportantNotices Phishing emails and text messages are currently in circulation If you receive such a message, do not click on any links it may contain because they will take you to a fake website with the same look and feel as Hydro-Québec’s. In addition, Hydro-Québec never contacts its customers to request a credit card number or demand payment by credit card. Think you’ve been the victim of a phishing scam?Find out what to do COVID-19 pandemic: We’re here for you In recent months, we have worked hard to continue to provide reliable electricity service and support you during this particularly challenging period. As part of our commitment to contribute to Québec’s economic recovery, we will be resuming our system maintenance activities to serve you better. Please note that the application of administration charges for unpaid bills for all customers resumed on October 1, 2020. We have also reinstated collection activities, which can lead to the electricity service being disconnected when a bill is past due and no payment arrangement is made. We are sensitive to the fact that some customers may be experiencing financial difficulties. If this is the case for you, we encourage you to go to your Customer Space or call us to enter into a payment arrangement today. This will ensure that you continue to benefit from the suspension of administration charges. Enter into a payment arrangement online Learn about the prevention measures we have introduced. We are also in close contact with our partners and our suppliers, who provide goods and services or work in one of our facilities. Health and safety are always top priorities at Hydro-Québec. Consequently, we will continue to keep you informed during this period, which has led to increased concerns for many of you.   Maximize your efficiency for the economic recovery! It pays to save energy—any way you look at it. Clean energy that is more than 99% renewable Solutions tailored to every project and every market Improved financial assistance equal to as much as 75% of eligible costs Is energy efficiency right for your company? Are you building or renovating a building or a plant? You could receive financial assistance that covers up to 75% of eligible costs. Learn more about the program Discover programs and tools that are tailored to your energy efficiency projects   Explore the possibilities Manage authorizations (proxy or consent) directly in your Customer Space Learn how 26,855 Quebecers took part in the consultation. See how our collective dreams are taking shape No wait times for our online services Monitor your electricity consumption Customers who are billed for power demand now have access to their Consumption Profile! Account manager Authorize an individual to act on behalf of your company. Tracking the status of a work request Is your work request in progress, complete or pending? Track the status of your request at any time in just a few clicks. Power outage info Is there an outage in your area? You can find out how big an area is affected and when service will be restored. See all our services Have an energy efficiency project and want to find the right program for you?   Contact a representative Québec: Home to clean clouds Welcoming data centers. Advantages of doing business in Québec Starting a business? Benefit from all the advantages Québec has to offer. The advantages of hydropower Our clean energy: A compelling advantage for any company! Services adapted to your needs! Whether you want to get a handle on your electricity costs or your account, check out our range of services. You’ll see: it’s well worth it! Thinking about installing solar panels? See our section on PV solar power. Is it cost-effective? Enter your information in the calculator to find out! Install electric vehicle charging stations in a multi-unit residential building   View the guide [PDF 2.2 Mb - In French only] How can we help you? Have any questions? Call or email us. Contact us Business newsletter Keep informed about our array of energy efficiency programs, products and services. Newsletter archives Sign up for newsletter [In French only] Important links Link to main sections Residential Business Link to some of our sites About Energy Wise Security advice Newsroom Contact us Power outages Jobs* Our sites Newsletters Follow us Linkedin Youtube Facebook Instagram Twitter @hydroquebec Follow us to learn more about company news. 									 @hydro_customer Questions about your bill, electricity use or our services? 									 Apps Apple Store Google Store Voice Assistants Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996- 						2021. All rights reserved. * Web site in French only