Indigenous Authors in the Spotlight Carousels - Memoirs & Life Stories - Concordia University Library Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resources Campus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) What's New Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Concordia University Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Directories Hours A-Z Maps Library Library Research Skills Tutorial Ask a Librarian   				Log into ...  My Library Account (Sofia) View checkouts, fees, place requests and more Interlibrary loans (Colombo) Request books from external libraries Zotero Manage your citations and create bibliographies BrowZine Browse & read journals through a friendly interface Article/chapter scan Request a PDF of an article/chapter we have in our physical collection Course reserves Online course readings Spectrum Deposit a thesis or article WebPrint Upload documents to print with DPrint Library hours Ask a librarian A-Z Find Sofia Discovery tool Databases by subject Course Reserves E-journals Browse & read journals (BrowZine) Article/chapter scan Intercampus delivery of bound periodicals/microforms Interlibrary Loans (Colombo) Spectrum Research Repository Special Collections Additional resources & services Help & how-to Subject & course guides Loans & Returns (Circulation) General guides for users Finding... Evaluating... Writing... Citing... Using... Workshops Ask a librarian Alumni Research Skills Tutorial Research support Bibliometrics & research impact guide Concordia University Press Copyright guide Copyright guide for thesis preparation Digital scholarship Open Access ORCID at Concordia Research data management guide Special Collections Spectrum Research Repository How to get published speaker series Technology Borrow (laptops, tablets, equipment) Connect (netname, Wi-Fi, guest accounts) Desktop computers, software & availability maps Group study, presentation practice & classrooms Printers, copiers & scanners Technology Sandbox Visualization Studio Locations & hours Webster Library Vanier Library Grey Nuns Reading Room Book a group study room/scanner Study spaces Floor plans Room booking for academic events About the library News Events Exhibitions Librarians & staff University Librarian Work with us Memberships & collaborations Indigenous Student Librarian program Wikipedian in residence Researcher-in-Residence Feedback & improvement Annual reports & fast facts Strategic Plan 2016/21 Library Services Fund Giving to the Library Webster Transformation blog Policies & Code of Conduct The Campaign for Concordia Library Research Skills Tutorial 								 Log into... My Library account (Sofia) Interlibrary loans Zotero BrowZine Article/chapter scan Course reserves Spectrum WebPrint 								 Quick links Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resources Campus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) What's New Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Website to search  Sofia 						  Library 						  Concordia 						 Search Search Concordia.ca   /   Library   /   About   /   News   /   Acquisitions   /   Indigenous   /   Fall 2021 Memoirs & Life Stories Indigenous Authors in the Spotlight Series Our Fall 2021 spotlight shines on authors writing their own stories through prose, poetry or other forms of autobiographical expression(s), and on Elders telling their stories through oral history interviews. We feature authors and collaborators from numerous nations and communities: Inuit, Innu, Huron Wendat, Ojibwe, Nehiyawak Cree, Métis, Sto:lo, Nlaka'pamux, Nisga'a and more. Yet, our highlighted entries represent only a small sampling of works in this area of study. Browse our bibliographies to find many additional memoir selections, including a variety of very recent memoirs by young writers and a growing collection of residential school life stories. Thank you to Sarah Monnier for curating and putting together this collection. Thank you to Manon Tremblay for her contributions to the content. NISHGA Jordan Abel 2020 Autobiographical meditations by an award-winning author about family, intergenerational trauma, Indigenous identity, and the afterlife of residential schools The Shoe Boy: A trapline memoir Duncan McCue 2016 Coming-of-age memoir of an Anishinaabe boy experiencing cultural shock in northern Quebec Indian School Days Basil Johnson 1989 Classic autobiography of Johnson’s childhood experiences in St. Peter Claver's Indian Residential School in Northern Ontario Life Among the Qallunaat Mini Aodla Freeman 2015 [1978] Freeman’s experiences moving between her Inuit world and the strange land of the Qallunaat, those living south of the Arctic Saqiyuq Apphia Agalakti Awa [and others] 1999 Stories from the Lives of Three Inuit Women. A grandmother, daughter, and granddaughter from Pond Inlet From the Tundra to the Trenches Eddy Weetaltuk 2017 An Inuk man's experiences of military service in the Korean War, world travel, and return to the Arctic Kôhkominawak otâcimowiniwâwa Glecia Bear [and others] 1992 Transcribed oral stories about life in Alberta and Saskatchewan, in the bush and on reserves, by ten Cree women The Education of Augie Merasty: A Residential School Memoir Joseph Auguste Merasty 2015 National bestselling story of abuse and survival at a Saskatchewan residential school by a retired fisherman, trapper and amateur boxer Je suis une maudite sauvagesse An Antane Kapesh 1976 Seminal work documenting colonialism's effect on the Innu and attesting to Kapesh's fierce pride in her community, family and identity From the ashes: my story of being Métis, homeless, and finding my way Jesse Thistle‎ 2019 Explores experiences of racism and being cast adrift, but also of love, hope and resilience Mononk Jules Jocelyn Sioui 2020 Sioui writes of his great uncle, a once renowned Wendat activist who then disappeared from both family and historical narratives Bobbi Lee: Indian Rebel Lee Maracle 2017 [1975] Maracle's autobiographical exploration of post-colonial tensions in Toronto circa 1960-1980 A Two-Spirit Journey: The Autobiography of a Lesbian Ojibwa-Cree Elder Ma-Nee Chacaby 2016 A story of healing from a respected elder, artist and activist written in collaboration of Mary Louisa Plummer Calling down the sky Rosanna Deerchild 2015 Poetry collection exploring a mother-daughter relationship and the post generational effects of residential school confinements Heart Berries Terese Marie Mailhot 2018 Essays about Mailhot's childhood, mental health, personal identity and re-established connections with her family, community, and place in the world A Really Good Brown Girl Marilyn Dumont 2015 [1996] Collection of fierce, sly and humorous autobiographical poems about Metis identity, and the prairies Âh-âyîtaw isi ê-kî-kiskêyihtahkik maskihkiy Alice Akenakew 2000 Stories of childhood, courtship and marriage, as well as an account of the 1918 influenza epidemic Gwich’in K’yuu Gwiidandài’ Tthak Ejuk Gòonlih Gwich'in Tribal Council 2020 Twenty-three Gwich’in Elders talk about the pleasures of living and travelling on the land Additional resources Our Zotero bibliographies, while by no means exhaustive, feature additional material relevant to memoirs and life stories. For additional Concordia Library resources on a variety of topics see our Indigenous educational resources for faculty and students or First Peoples Studies Subject Guide. If you come across more works and authors that you think are missing at Concordia Library, let us know via our Suggest a Purchase form. About the series Our Indigenous Authors in the Spotlight Series aims to support and promote Indigenous authors and artists by featuring some of the library's materials with Indigenous content, specifically focusing on works by First Nations, Métis and Inuit authors and artists. Previous editions Indigenous Feminisms (2020): authors engaging with, and challenging, a wide range of feminist perspectives. Featured works include single-authored monographs, edited books, journal articles and even a podcast. Science Fiction & Futurisms (Fall 2019): Authors exploring settler contact, colonialism, climate change, notions of progress and scifi tropes. They offer multiple visions of dystopias, utopias as well as contemporary realisms and futurisms. Indigenous Poetry (Winter 2019): Spotlight on contemporary works, including Griffin Poetry Prize winners, older favourites and more difficult choices, long form poems and anthologies; the poetry covers topics such as representation, revolution, racism, and love. Indigenous Research Methods (2018): Library materials exploring Indigenous research methodologies and Indigenous knowledges. Books that celebrate or examine non-Western ways of knowing such as plant- and land- based knowledges, storywork and ceremony. Written and edited by Indigenous authors from around the world. Indigenous Authors in the Spotlight (2017): A selection of literature, art, drama, poetry, non-fiction by First Nations, Métis and Inuit authors and artists, including works by Indigenous faculty at Concordia, and a celebration of the work of the late Gail Guthrie Valaskakis. Celebrating Authors and Great Reads (2016): Some of the library’s print and online books of relevance to Indigenous studies and issues, including non-fiction, fiction, poetry, art, children's books, and even manga. Most selections are recent, published within the last 5-10 years and authored First Nations, Métis and Inuit authors and artists. See also our shared Zotero bibliographies for all these collections. << Previous: Indigenous Feminisms (Spring/Summer 2020) Updated: Friday 12 November 2021 Back to top CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY - 				Locations & phone numbers Home Find Help & how-to Research support Technology Locations & hours About the Library Undergraduate students Graduate students Students with disabilities Faculty Alumni Administrative staff Support staff External community Webster Library 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, 												Quebec, 												Canada H3G 1M8 See on SGW Campus map Vanier Library 7141 Sherbrooke St. W. Montreal, 												Quebec, 												Canada H4B 1R6 See on Loyola Campus map facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Feedback Provide feedback Feedback forms Close Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. Give feedback about the Library's spaces, services, and/or collections Get help with my research, course work, or report a broken link Share this page Concordia University Library Locations & phone numbers Webster Library 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, 						Quebec, 						Canada H3G 1M8 See on SGW Campus map Vanier Library 7141 Sherbrooke St. W. Montreal, 						Quebec, 						Canada H4B 1R6 See on Loyola Campus map Feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University