My voice my STM | Société de transport de Montréal Go to main content Go to search field Go to level 1 main menu Go to level 2 sub-menu Go to this page sub-menu Go to additionnal content Quick links Level 1 Quick links Level 2 Société de transport de Montréal Société de transport de Montréal Menu Getting around Fares Getting around Useful info Networks Métro Bus - Schedules Shared taxibus See all Service updates Métro service updates Bus service updates STM Works See all Fares Download current fare schedule (PDF) OPUS cards and other fare media Transit fares See all Customer service Contact us After-sales services in stations Lost and found See all Advice for passengers The handy guide to reconnection Ways to view bus schedules Métro service disruptions See all Rules and safety Rules and regulations Travelling safely Statements of offence and fines See all Universal accessibility Universal access Elevator access to the métro Corporate policy of universal accessibililty See all To Useful info Paratransit Reserving online with SIRTA See all Contact us See all About Paratransit What is paratransit? Paratransit customer service Paratransit history See all Admission OPUS ID Card Visitors Eligibility criteria See all Using paratransit Automated reminders Operating hours Area served See all Titles and fares Download the Paratransit fare schedule effective July 1, 2021 (PDF) FAQ - fares and fare control Fares and Fare media accepted by Transport adapté See all Tips and guidelines Lost and found Notifications Preparing for trips See all Forms See all To Paratransit Offers and outings Sooo Montréal Sooo hockey See all Boutique STM See all Newsletters Discover our newsletter Society in Motion See all To Offers and outings About Discover the STM and its history Art in the network History The STM's podcasts See all Major projects Major metro projects Major bus projects Completed major projects See all Financial and Corporate Information About the STM Organisational Strategic Plan 2025 Performance indicators See all Corporate governance Board of directors Board committees Board members See all Surveys and consultations Public consultations Join your voice See all Business zone Commercial activities Groups Partnerships and permissions See all Developers Available data description Terms of Use See all To About Discover the STM and its history Major projects Corporate governance Financial and Corporate Information Surveys and consultations Business zone Developers Our new mobile site FAQ Contact us Jobs Business zone Press room Ma STM Français Search within this site My voice my STM About Surveys and consultations Join your voice Public consultations Join your voice src="https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=2351636091529633&ev=PageView &noscript=1"/> Your opinion is no joke! My voice my STM is a panel of over 20,000 customers who answer surveys on topics such as our major projects, trial initiatives and service quality. By sharing their opinion, our panelists make a real difference in Montréal public transit. Join them today! Sign up Win prizes Sign up now and create a profile to be entered automatically in a draw to win one of two quarterly $300 prizes. Each survey you complete will then earn you a chance to win one of two $200 monthly prizes. Ouvrir la section: Contest rules There are two contests to reward those who take part in My voice my STM. The first is held every three (3) months and is for new panel members and consists of a draw, among them, for two prizes worth $300 (see the contest rules here). The second one takes place each month and aims to reward those who answered surveys and consists of a draw for two prizes, each worth $200. Each completed survey earns you an additional entry in the draw (see the contest rules here). Close Ouvrir la section: See the list of recent winners Ouvrir la section: 2021 Sign-up contest (300$) July 2021 Dottie Rolland, Laval Simon Gauthier, Mont-Saint-Grégoire April 2021 Cynthia Prentice, Montréal Liane Desnoyers, Montréal January 2021 Carole Naka, Montréal Mariko Imanaka, Montréal Survey contest (200$) August 2021 Alejandro Hernandez Saiz, Montréal Catherine Blanchette, Montréal July 2021 Benoit Rochefort, Saint-Hubert Emma Canales, Verdun June 2021 Sabine Butler, Montréal Dorina Banu, Montréal May 2021 Ludvic Mcquin-Beaudry, Montréal Lisa Patterson, Montréal April 2021 Kelso Mallette, Montréal Étienne Pemberton, Montréal March 2021 Pierre Jutras, Montréal Jean-François Charguerot, Montréal February 2021 Isabelle Scaffidi, Montréal Christine Tremblay, Laval January 2021 Stéphane Vincent, Montréal Julie Blais, Montréal Ouvrir la section: 2020 Sign-up contest (300$) October 2020 Camila Coimbra, Montréal Diane Keating, Montréal Survey contest (200$) December 2020 Nicole Laroque, Montréal Pierre Paquette, Montréal November 2020 Julia Sidorenko, Montréal Jean Archambault, Montréal October 2020 Alejandro Macias Flores, Montréal Juliette Bélanger, Montréal September 2020 Benoit Dumont, Montréal Pascal Cartier, Montréal Août 2020 Bernard Fontaine, Montréal Luc Archambault, Montréal 			  Close Ouvrir la section: FAQ Ouvrir la section: What is My voice my STM? My voice my STM is a research and survey panel made up of STM regular transit network customers who volunteered to share their opinions on a number of subjects pertaining to public transportation in the Montréal area. Ouvrir la section: Why join My voice my STM? STM customers of the bus and métro network who register as members of the panel are given the opportunity to share their experiences and opinions about different aspects of public transportation and thereby help to improve STM services and shape the future of public transit. By becoming a member of the My voice my STM panel and answering surveys, customers can also win prizes. Ouvrir la section: How can I become a member of My voice my STM? Simply click on « Sign up », then fill out the online registration form, where you will be asked to provide information about your STM customer profile. After, you will receive an email to validate your registration. Ouvrir la section: Are there any admissibility criteria? The My voice my STM panel is open to all customers who ride STM public transit and who agree to answer surveys. Such customers must have an email address. Ouvrir la section: How often will I be required to answer surveys? You will be invited to answer surveys once or twice a month, depending on your customer profile and STM needs. Ouvrir la section: What will these surveys be about? Survey subjects are always about public transportation and the STM. For example, your level of satisfaction with bus and métro service, your opinion about the latest promotional campaign, your universal accessibility needs or your reaction to a new service the STM is planning on providing to STM bus and métro services. Ouvrir la section: How long can I take part in My voice my STM? You can take part in My voice my STM as long as you like and you can also quit at any time by simply clicking on the “Cancel your subscription” link found at the bottom of any of our email communications. Ouvrir la section: What will the STM do with the information I provide? Any information you give to the STM will be kept strictly confidential. To find out more, consult our Terms of Use. Ouvrir la section: On average, how long does it take to answer these surveys? Each survey is different but, on average, it should take you about 5 minutes. Ouvrir la section: How long do I have to answer a survey? The surveys will usually be available for five open days, depending on the situation. Ouvrir la section: I did not receive my confirmation email or I am not receiving emails from My voice my STM Depending on your email provider and your personal email settings, some emails sent from an automated system may be diverted directly into your Junk Mail folder. Please check your Junk Mail folder for our email. To avoid this situation, you can add our email address to your safe sender list, safe recipient list, white list (different names are used in different email programs) or to your address book. If you have checked your Junk Mail folder and have not been able to find a copy of your Confirmation email, please contact us at this address: info@mavoixmastm.info Ouvrir la section: I would like to unsubscribe You can click on the “Cancel your subscription” link found at the bottom of any of our email communications, and follow the instructions on screen to complete the process. Once you have completed this action, you will be immediately removed from the panel. Ouvrir la section: None of these apply to my question You can contact the My voice my STM team by writing to: info@mavoixmastm.info Please specify your question or comment in detail, so we can understand the issue and find a solution. For example, please include: A copy of any error messages A copy of the question you have trouble with A description of the problem you have with the question The browser you are using (ex. Chrome, Firefox, Edge, etc.) If your answer to a question is not accepted, please include the exact answer you are trying to enter 						  Close Top of page Board’s work Taking part in the Board’s work Useful links Customer service Service updates Networks Newsletter registration Quick links My voice my STM surveys Universal Accessibility Ways for viewing bus schedules Work underway Customer service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Linkedin © STM 1997-2021 Bus network Metro Network Legal Notices Developers Web Accessibility Site Plan Keep in touch