Office of the VP, Research & Graduate Studies Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/about/administration-governance/office-vp-research-graduate-studies.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 About 	 	  /  	 Administration & governance 	 	  /  	 Office of the VP, Research & Graduate Studies 	 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn About the research sector The Office of Vice-President, Research and Graduate Studies (OVPRGS) takes great pride in providing support and guidance to the university’s researchers. The Office offers an array of services to help dedicated researchers and promote the results of their research — whether it’s maximizing funding opportunities, establishing international research partnerships or guiding them through the university’s policies and procedures. Since graduate students play a key role in research, the Office, through the School of Graduate Studies, provides several services – from application to thesis – to support graduate students. The Office also oversees admissions standards and graduation requirements.   Strategic Research Plan Explore research at Concordia Research and Graduate Studies sector key people What we do Research Through the Office of Research, the Vice-President is responsible for research facilitation and promotion, including maximizing research funding opportunities, the development and implementation of policies related to research, technology transfer, and providing a full range of research services and support to Concordia researchers. Visit the Office of Research Graduate Studies Through the School of Graduate Studies, students, faculty and administrators are shepherded through the academic and administrative components of Concordia's graduate programs. The School is home to the Individualized (INDI) programs, which supports research initiatives that fall outside of normal disciplinary boundaries of research and creation. INDI students develop and engage in unique, meaningful, and self-directed research that would not otherwise be available through existing graduate programs. The School is also home to the Certificate in the Teaching of Higher and Continuing Education (C-Teach), an online, part-time certificate that trains students to cultivate and strengthen skills in designing, developing, and leading university, Cegep, college, and continuing education courses.. Visit the School of Graduate Studies International relations Through Concordia International, the Vice-President plays a leadership role in promoting (international) student mobility as well as international research initiatives. Visit Concordia International Leonard & Bina Ellen Art Gallery The Leonard & Bina Ellen Art Gallery is part of Concordia University and is dedicated to the research, dissemination and critical examination of Canadian and international contemporary art. As part of its programming, it presents exhibitions, provides various educational programs and produces publications. Responsibility for all tasks related to the management, exhibition, research and conservation of the Gallery’s art collection is also part of its mandate. Visit the Leonard & Bina Art Gallery Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and Technology The Milieux Institute for Arts, Culture and Technology is a research unit working at the intersection of design, art, culture and technology. It is a platform for progressive imagining, critical studies, creative experimenting and interdisciplinary training where thinking and making come together to transform our encounter with technology. Visit Milieux PERFORM Centre The PERFORM Centre is a unique facility dedicated to improving health through prevention. The centre combines research, education and community engagement in the areas of physical activity, rehabilitation, nutrition and lifestyle change. PERFORM brings together researchers, students and program participants in a state-of-the-art clinical research facility to create an integrated and comprehensive environment that promotes healthy living. Visit the PERFORM Centre Research Integrity Fundamentally, the public expects that academics act with integrity, since research is the cornerstone of our profession. At Concordia, we have aligned ourselves to the highest standards set by federal and provincial funding agencies. The research integrity officer provides information, support, training and assistance to scholars in fulfilling all obligations related to principles of ethical conduct. These standards are consistent with the requirements of federal and provincial funding agencies and other sponsors at the university, and are outlined in detail in the Policy for the Responsible Conduct of Research. If you have any questions relating to the integrity research at Concordia, contact Cameron Skinner, research integrity officer, directly and confidentially, at rio@concordia.ca or 514-848-2424, ext. 3341. Email the Research Integrity Officer Next-Generation Cities Institute The university’s Next-Generation Cities Institute leverages the combined strength of our cities research capacity to enhance collaboration, communication, education and interaction within our community. The institute brings together researchers from a range of disciplines including engineering, economics, natural sciences, the arts, humanities and the social sciences to engage in an inclusive and universal approach to sustainable urban development. Visit the Next-Generation Cities Institute Applied Artificial Intelligence Institute The Applied Artificial Intelligence Institute connects Concordia researchers to address important challenges in the fields of telecommunications, cybersecurity, Smart Cities, critical infrastructure, transportation and aerospace, manufacturing, gaming, medical diagnostics, human-machine systems and social-cultural studies and finance. Visit the Applied AI Institute Contact us 514-848-2424, ext. 4395 514-848-4010 Consult our staff directory Location & hours Sir George Williams Campus GM 900.00 (see map) 1550 De Maisonneuve Blvd W. Monday to Friday 9 a.m. - 5 p.m. Mailing address Office of VP, Research & Graduate Studies SGW Campus, GM 900 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 Research at a glance Research chairs Research units Internal funding and prize opportunities Institutional policies & guidelines Students & postdocs Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy