OPUS card | Société de transport de Montréal Go to main content Go to search field Go to level 1 main menu Go to level 2 sub-menu Go to this page sub-menu Go to additionnal content Quick links Level 1 Quick links Level 2 Société de transport de Montréal Société de transport de Montréal Menu Getting around Fares Getting around Useful info Networks Métro Bus - Schedules Shared taxibus See all Service updates Métro service updates Bus service updates STM Works See all Fares Download current fare schedule (PDF) OPUS cards and other fare media Transit fares See all Customer service Contact us After-sales services in stations Lost and found See all Advice for passengers The handy guide to reconnection Ways to view bus schedules Métro service disruptions See all Rules and safety Rules and regulations Travelling safely Statements of offence and fines See all Universal accessibility Universal access Elevator access to the métro Corporate policy of universal accessibililty See all To Useful info Paratransit Reserving online with SIRTA See all Contact us See all About Paratransit What is paratransit? Paratransit customer service Paratransit history See all Admission OPUS ID Card Visitors Eligibility criteria See all Using paratransit Automated reminders Operating hours Area served See all Titles and fares Download the Paratransit fare schedule effective July 1, 2021 (PDF) FAQ - fares and fare control Fares and Fare media accepted by Transport adapté See all Tips and guidelines Lost and found Notifications Preparing for trips See all Forms See all To Paratransit Offers and outings Sooo Montréal Sooo hockey See all Boutique STM See all Newsletters Discover our newsletter Society in Motion See all To Offers and outings About Discover the STM and its history Art in the network History The STM's podcasts See all Major projects Major metro projects Major bus projects Completed major projects See all Financial and Corporate Information About the STM Organisational Strategic Plan 2025 Performance indicators See all Corporate governance Board of directors Board committees Board members See all Surveys and consultations Public consultations Join your voice See all Business zone Commercial activities Groups Partnerships and permissions See all Developers Available data description Terms of Use See all To About Networks Service updates Fares Customer service Advice for passengers Rules and safety Universal accessibility Our new mobile site FAQ Contact us Jobs Business zone Press room Ma STM Français Search within this site OPUS card Useful info Fares OPUS cards and other fare media OPUS card Download current fare schedule (PDF) OPUS cards and other fare media OPUS card OPUS reduced fare - Students OPUS reduced fare - 65 years and over Tickets Occasional card Registered OPUS card OPUS en ligne- Card reader Transit fares Subscriptions Special offers Buying large quantities of transit fares Transfers Points of sale List of authorized retailers Conditions on exchange and refund src="https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=2351636091529633&ev=PageView &noscript=1"/> OPUS card purchase Recharging an OPUS card Registering your OPUS card - Protection against loss or theft How to use the OPUS card Lost or stolen card Damaged or malfunctioning card Replacement of an expired OPUS card without a photo Recycling an expired OPUS card Tips for your OPUS card An OPUS card is a smart card on which you can charge all STM transit fares, with the exception of group fares, which are available on tickets only. OPUS cards are used by most transit authorities in the Greater Montréal area, and in the Québec City area. OPUS card purchase OPUS card without a photo Can be loaded with regular fare tickets and passes. Get your card from station agents or vending machines in métro stations and at other points of sale. When you buy an OPUS card for $6, you must charge it with a fare for at least one trip.Please note: 	- OPUS card is not refundable. 	- One user per card (see By-laws A.33.3, r.3.) Texte important OPUS cards without a photo are valid for 4 years. Go to carteopus.info to look up your card's expiry date.   Ouvrir la section: Cost and validity period of an OPUS card without a photo Validity period Cost 4 years $6 Go to carteopus.info to find out when your OPUS card without photo is due to expire and conditions for replacing it. Card issuing fees apply when replacing this card. Close OPUS card with a photo Only if you are entitled to pay the reduced fare. Read here about obtaining one : OPUS reduced fare - Students | OPUS reduced fare - 65 years and over Please note: the photo OPUS card is personal, automatically registered and non-transferable. Ouvrir la section: Cost and validity period of an OPUS card with a photo OPUS card with photo Validity period Cost 6 -11 years Until October 31 in the year the child turns 12 $6 12 -14 years 2 years $15 Student 						15 years and over 1 year 						Your fare privilege will terminate October 31 of each scholar year.  $15 65 and over 7 years $15 Expiry date appears on back of OPUS cards with photo. Card issuing fees apply to all card replacements.  Close Recharging an OPUS card Texte important The audio interface for the banking keypad on the reloading terminals (BR) and the fare vending machine (DAT) is now up and running. You can recharge a valid OPUS card with your choice of transit fares: Online at opusenligne.ca using a computer and OPUS card reader In the métro: at a fare vending machine, a recharging terminal, or a ticket booth Instructions for using the audio interface Accessible Word format At points of sale throughout the city Registering your OPUS card - Protection against loss or theft Registering your OPUS card without a photo provides you with a guarantee in the event your card is lost or stolen. You can have it replaced and recoup any transit fares left over when you reported the card missing. Fare replacement guarantee is automatic for OPUS cards with a photo. How to register your OPUS card without a photo? In person: go to any station or an Espace client booth Online:  your request will be processed within 10 business days. Learn more about registered OPUS cards without a photo How to use the OPUS card Hold your OPUS card above the fare box on the bus or the card reader on the métro turnstile. Hold it steady for a few seconds while card is validated. Validation is confirmed by a green or yellow light and an audio signal (beep). Lost or stolen card Ouvrir la section: Loss or theft of an unregistered OPUS card without a photo You must buy a new OPUS card and charge it with a new fare. We encourage you to register your next OPUS card as a guarantee against loss or theft. Close Ouvrir la section: Loss or theft of a registered OPUS card without a photo Go to any station or an Espace client booth with a photo ID card. You will be given a new OPUS card charged with any fares remaining on the old one when you reported it lost or stolen. You will pay only the cost of a new OPUS card. Close Ouvrir la section: Loss or theft of an OPUS card with a photo Go to the STM photo studio or to an Espace client booth with a photo ID card. You will receive a new OPUS card charged with any fares remaining on the old one when you reported it lost or stolen. You will pay only the cost of a new OPUS card with photo. Close Damaged or malfunctioning card Go to any station or an Espace client booth to replace your OPUS card. If your card was damaged by misuse, you will have to pay the cost of a new card. 	If your card is defective, it will be replaced free of charge. Be advised that you must pay your fare, as usual, even when going to an Espace client booth to replace a card. Our advice: Protect your OPUS card by keeping it in a plastic sleeve. Replacement of an expired OPUS card without a photo Your OPUS card expires after four (4) years. To find out your card's expiry date, go to carteopus.info Our advice: Replace your OPUS card without a photo within 90 days of its expiration date. Ouvrir la section: OPUS cards with a serial number higher than 02-2461523030 If your valid or expired card is empty of fares or only has a monthly or weekly STM pass: buy a new card. If your valid or expired card has any of these STM fares: single or multiple trips, Unlimited Evening, Unlimited Weekend, 1-day or 3-day pass, take your card and go to any station or an Espace client booth. If your card is still valid and has fares from other transit organizations: take your card and go to an Espace client booth or to your transit provider's service point. If your card has already expired, bring your card and go to your transit organization's customer service centre. Texte important Card issuing fees apply when replacing an expired OPUS card without a photo. Your card was registered? Be advised that the registered status of your OPUS card is not automatically transferred onto your new card. You must register your new card again. To do so, please complete the electronic form or go to any station or an Espace client booth. Close Ouvrir la section: OPUS cards with a serial number inferior to 02-2461523030   If your valid or expired card is empty of fares or only has a monthly STM pass for current month: go to a métro ticket counter or to an Espace client booth. If your valid or expired card has any of these STM fares: single or multiple trips, Unlimited Evening, Unlimited Weekend, 1-day or 3-day pass, weekly Hebdo pass, take your card and go to a métro ticket counter or to an Espace client booth. If your card is still valid and has fares from other transit organizations: take your card and go to an Espace client booth or at your transit provider's service point. If your card has already expired, bring your card and go to your transit organization's customer service centre. Texte important Expired OPUS cards without a photo with a serial number inferior to 02-2461523030 are replaced free of charge. Your card was registered? Be advised that the registered status of your OPUS card is not automatically transferred onto your new card. You must register your new card again. To do so, please complete the electronic form or go to any station or an Espace client booth. How to obtain a refund if you already purchased a new card: Ouvrir la section: In person Go to an Espace client booth and bring the following with you: Your original purchase receipt for the new OPUS card (it will be returned to you) Your expired OPUS card (or about to expire in less than 90 days) Your new OPUS card As the registered status of your card is not automatically transferred onto the new card, take this opportunity to register your new OPUS card.  Ouvrir la section: By mail Fill out the form by providing all required information. Send in: 							your expired OPUS card or the one that expires in less than 90 days the original purchase receipt for the new OPUS card (If you purchased a monthly CAM pass, an equivalent official receipt will be forwarded to you.) the duly completed form. Forward all documents to this address: 							STM 							PO Box 248 							Succursale Place D’Armes 							Montréal, Québec, H2Y 3G7 How you will be refunded: The $6.00 purchase price of the new card will be refunded in the form of: a two-trip fare, valid within the bus and métro system, loaded onto an occasional smart card. Remaining fares on your expired card will be loaded onto an occasional smart card. Please note that postage fees will not be refunded. Texte important Your card was registered? Be advised that the registered status of your OPUS card is not automatically transferred onto your new card. You must register your new card again. To do so, please complete the electronic form or go to any station or an Espace client booth. Close Recycling an expired OPUS card You can now recycle your expired OPUS card by placing it in one of the four Electrobac bins located on our métro network in the following stations: Berri-UQAM Jean-Talon Lionel-Groulx Snowdon You can also use this bin to recycle your small electronics in a safe and environmentally friendly way. For more information about Electrobac Ouvrir la section: What happens to the data contained in the OPUS cards? The data is permanently and irrevocably deleted and destroyed. Close Ouvrir la section: What happens to the recycled OPUS cards? They are taken to recycling centres approved under the Canadian standard of the Recycler Qualification Office to be recycled in Canada. Then they are shredded and sorted. The metals contained in the chip are sent to smelters to have the polyvinyl chloride (PVC) extracted, which is then ground up and sold in the industrial sector. Close Tips for your OPUS card Ouvrir la section: Check its expiry date Your OPUS card without photo expires after four years. Don’t let time run out on you! To learn when your card expires and how to replace it, go to carteopus.info. Be advised that issuing a new card is subject to a $6 fee. For OPUS cards with a photo, validity period appears on back of card. Read more about card fees. Close Ouvrir la section: Save time when buying your fares Ouvrir la section: OPUS à l’année and OPUS & Cie fare subscription Subscribe to OPUS à l’année and receive your OPUS card at home, pre-loaded with monthly fares. Each month, you paid for it through bank debit or credit card, until such time as you terminate your subscription. The OPUS & Cie program is for companies that wish to encourage public transit use among their employees. It applies to full fare, annual subscriptions (12 monthly passes), valid on island of Montréal. Ouvrir la section: OPUS en ligne With an OPUS card reader, you can buy your transit fares 24 hours a day, seven days a week, right from home. Say goodbye to line-ups! Ouvrir la section: Buy your monthly pass in advance Avoid waiting in line and buy your monthly pass as of the 20th for the next month. Close Ouvrir la section: Keep your card in a plastic case To ensure your card works optimally when being validated in the bus or métro, it is important it should stay in good condition. Keep it in a rigid plastic case, not in a wallet where, over time, it can wear out or be damaged. Close Top of page Subscribe to métro service alerts TWITTER FEEDS Follow our Twitter accounts to know in real time the status of the métro service during interruptions of more than 10 minutes. @stm_Verte @stm_Orange @stm_Jaune @stm_Bleue EMAIL | SMS You can also receive service updates by email or SMS (text message) in case of a Métro service disruption lasting more than 10 minutes. Subscribe from your My STM account Useful links Fare schedule effective July 1, 2021 (PDF) 747 Aéroport P.-E.-Trudeau / Centre-ville shuttle Visitors Find a point of sale OPUS en ligne online fare purchasing service Registered OPUS card Customer service Useful links OPUS CARD Customer service Lost and found Visitors Quick links My voice my STM surveys Universal Accessibility Ways for viewing bus schedules Work underway Customer service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Linkedin © STM 1997-2021 Bus network Metro Network Legal Notices Developers Web Accessibility Site Plan Keep in touch