Our social commitment | Société de transport de Montréal Go to main content Go to search field Go to level 1 main menu Go to level 2 sub-menu Go to this page sub-menu Go to additionnal content Quick links Level 1 Quick links Level 2 Société de transport de Montréal Société de transport de Montréal Menu Getting around Fares Getting around Useful info Networks Métro Bus - Schedules Shared taxibus See all Service updates Métro service updates Bus service updates STM Works See all Fares Download current fare schedule (PDF) OPUS cards and other fare media Transit fares See all Customer service Contact us After-sales services in stations Lost and found See all Advice for passengers The handy guide to reconnection Ways to view bus schedules Métro service disruptions See all Rules and safety Rules and regulations Travelling safely Statements of offence and fines See all Universal accessibility Universal access Elevator access to the métro Corporate policy of universal accessibililty See all To Useful info Paratransit Reserving online with SIRTA See all Contact us See all About Paratransit What is paratransit? Paratransit customer service Paratransit history See all Admission OPUS ID Card Visitors Eligibility criteria See all Using paratransit Automated reminders Operating hours Area served See all Titles and fares Download the Paratransit fare schedule effective July 1, 2021 (PDF) FAQ - fares and fare control Fares and Fare media accepted by Transport adapté See all Tips and guidelines Lost and found Notifications Preparing for trips See all Forms See all To Paratransit Offers and outings Sooo Montréal Sooo hockey See all Boutique STM See all Newsletters Discover our newsletter Society in Motion See all To Offers and outings About Discover the STM and its history Art in the network History The STM's podcasts See all Major projects Major metro projects Major bus projects Completed major projects See all Financial and Corporate Information About the STM Organisational Strategic Plan 2025 Performance indicators See all Corporate governance Board of directors Board committees Board members See all Surveys and consultations Public consultations Join your voice See all Business zone Commercial activities Groups Partnerships and permissions See all Developers Available data description Terms of Use See all To About Discover the STM and its history Major projects Corporate governance Financial and Corporate Information Surveys and consultations Business zone Developers Our new mobile site FAQ Contact us Jobs Business zone Press room Ma STM Français Search within this site Our social commitment About Financial and Corporate Information Our social commitment About the STM Organisational Strategic Plan 2025 Performance indicators Diversity Budgets and Reports Sustainable Development Our social commitment src="https://www.facebook.com/tr?id=2351636091529633&ev=PageView &noscript=1"/> At the very core of our values As the 15th largest company in Québec handling more than one million passenger rides on the bus and métro system each day, the STM plays an important socio-economic role in the everyday life of Montrealers. But did you know that the STM social commitment also ranks high among its corporate values? Texte important Since 1962, employees and retirees have been involved in the community on a volunteer basis. A major endeavour, propelled by hope Financial support to four non-profit organizations A fundraising drive is held each year by volunteers in all company work places, for the benefit of groups supported by the STM. As part of a vast generosity campaign, all employees are asked to donate a fraction of their paycheque to help support these organizations. The four are Centraide, tackling poverty and social exclusion, HealthPartners-Québec, working to eradicate sixteen chronic diseases, the Red Cross, helping disaster victims, and the  Réchaud-Bus, an STM bus converted into a mobile canteen that travels to different areas of the city to feed children in need. In 2020, the employees’ generosity campaign made it possible to donate $653 415 to these four organizations. Such a wave of solidarity could not be accomplished without the involvement of employees and retirees who tirelessly volunteer for this good cause. Indeed, no donations, either of money or transit fares, are made by the STM, as a public body. To learn more about services available to non-profit organizations and business enterprises, please read the FAQ section below.  On a daily basis Reaching out to the homeless The STM works closely with two social rehabilitation groups, the SDSVMand Accueil Bonneau, to improve its outreach to homeless persons who wander in some metro stations and provide them with access to appropriate resources, such as shelters, hospitals, day centres, and psychiatric services. Reaching out to people in distress In association with Suicide Action Montréal, the STM informs people about the tools available regarding suicide prevention. For more than 30 years, SAM offers support and help for people in distress as well as for their entourage. If you feel the need to reach out for help, you can contact Suicide Action Montréal's confidential service at any time by calling 1 866 277-3552. Frequently Asked Questions Mutual aid Ouvrir la section: Could my organization receive STM support ? No. the STM is a public corporation that does not take part in any benefit events, nor does it provide support to any organization other than those it has sponsored for many years. Also, no sollicitation of employees is allowed or authorized. Close Ouvrir la section: Can I organize a collection in the métro? Soliciting money in the métro for charitable or humanitarian purposes may be permitted under certain conditions. For sollicitations of a commercial nature, go to Transgesco's website. Close Ouvrir la section: Does the STM donates free cards? No. The STM never makes fare cards donations. See our fare offer in the section below. Close Fare offers Ouvrir la section: Are there special fare discounts for groups or non-profits? STM fares apply to all, regardless, but a number of options are available to you. Organizations and businesses You are organizing a convention, business meeting or a major event and you would like to offer to your participants a sustainable solution to their transportation needs? Visit our Business Zone Group fares The group fare provides one-way passage for one (1) adult with a maximum of 10 children 6 to 13 years old. The group must remain together for duration of trip. Fare program for children The STM bus and métro system is free for children 5 years old and under at all time, and for children 6 to 11 years old at given times, as part of the Family Outings program. MERCI rewards program Exclusive benefits for long-time public transit users. Fare subscriptions Find out more about the advantages for both employers and employees… Head’s up to all HR managers See all offers Would you like to provide STM customers with an exclusive discount at your venue, business or event? Go to our Business Zone. Close STM vehicles Ouvrir la section: Are STM vehicles at the public’s disposal? The STM does not lend its vehicles. However, these can be: 		  		Rented You can rent an STM bus. Donated Vehicles no longer used for service and being disposed of can, exceptionally, be donated. However, only requests received from charitable groups and museums will be considered – Putting in a request. Sold The STM also sells its minibuses and service vehicles through the Centre des Services Partagés du Québec with public auctions open to individuals and companies. As for buses, they are sold in lots by the STM through public tenders. School / Day camp shuttle service Transportation service for day camps and schools is only offered if resources exceed operational requirements. Please read our Advice for group travel and our fare chart.  Close Activities in the métro system Ouvrir la section: Can I hold an activity in the métro? Activities, movie and photo shoots, media requests…  for everyone’s safety, access to buses and the metro is subject to regulations. Close Ouvrir la section: Advertisements and business partnerships For any questions of a commercial nature, please read the Business Zone section of our website. Close Top of page Board’s work Taking part in the Board’s work Useful links Customer service Service updates Networks Newsletter registration Quick links My voice my STM surveys Universal Accessibility Ways for viewing bus schedules Work underway Customer service Facebook Twitter YouTube Instagram Linkedin © STM 1997-2021 Bus network Metro Network Legal Notices Developers Web Accessibility Site Plan Keep in touch