Places4Students.com - Concordia University - All Campuses, Montreal, QC 	Untitled Page skip to main content Home About Us   About Us Our Story Enter our Sweepstakes Our Company Culture Benefits of Using P4S Partner Schools Testimonials   Landlords Students Schools Contact Us Blog Help   Landlords / Advertisers Students Fraud / Scam Alerts Multimedia Related Services Students   Login Search Listings Landlords   Login Register Follow Us: Concordia University - All Campuses, Montreal, QC 64 total listings Property Listings Search rental property listings near your School. View Property Listings Roommate Profiles Profiles of Students who are looking for a place to live. Find Roommates Student Sublets Rooms or Apartments for rent by Students View Sublets Landlords & Advertisers Post and Manage your Rental, Property Listings and/ or Banner Advertisements. Find Out More Message Board Post, Read and Reply to Messages posted for your School. View Messages Related Services Products and Services for all your needs while attending College or University! Related Services DISCLAIMER: The listings on this site are intended as a resource only, and Concordia University cannot and does not guarantee the accuracy, adequacy, or completeness of the content or information contained under the links. Risk of loss arising out of use is solely the responsibility of the user. For information on moving to Montreal and renting in Quebec, please read our FAQs. You can also visit the Concordia Student Union House and Job bank for more information. News COVID-19 and Off-Campus Housing Sep 22, 2021 This is a very unique time in the world with ramifications for the off-campus housing industry. We encourage everyone to follow government guidelines, work together, and check trusted sources for updates. Read more here.  	  Resources for COVID-19 Updates: United States - Centers for Disease Control & Prevention Government of Canada - Health Department Ontario Ministry of Health World Health Organization US National Apartment Association Canadian Federation of Apartment Associations 190 Campuses on Places4Students.com! Sep 22, 2021 We have expanded our Partner School list to over 190 campuses and now have the following academic institutions added to our service: Algonquin College Assiniboine Community College Augustana College Brandon University Bridgewater State University Concordia University Humboldt State University IBT College Insignia College Mohawk College Monmouth University Stevens Institute of Technology Texas Christian University University of British Columbia Okanagan University of California Santa Cruz (UCSC) University of Lethbridge University of the Fraser Valley Washington State University Yakima Places4Students.com Blog Sep 22, 2021 Our team posts relevant and current housing information for both landlords and students on an ongoing basis. Be sure to Visit our Blog weekly to stay up-to-date with the student housing industry! Feel free to Contact Us should you have any questions. Feeds & Links Connect With Us: Facebook Twitter 	  Instagram 	  LinkedIn 	  YouTube 	  Pinterest School Search Search By Letter We have multiple properties that are student focused due to location. Places4Students is the most cost... Joshua P. Sokolowski, President - Living York Limited York University - Toronto, ON UserAgreement Policies AdvertisingCosts Feedback © 2003 - 2021 Places4Students.com. All rights reserved. To use this website, the user acknowledges that Places4Students.com and/or the schools/institutions represented makes no warranties or validations regarding the content posted on this website.  For more information, please visit our User Agreement. Never send money to a prospective tenant, even if they have sent you a money order and request funds be returned back to them. For more information, please visit our Fraud / Scam Alerts.