Power outages | Hydro-Québec Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu All sites News Contact us Power outages Français Log-in 						 Power outages 						Search 						 Menu Log-in Home Ongoing outages Planned service interruptions Status by region In case of an outage Before an outage During an outage After an outage Understanding and preventing Frequently asked questions Trees and power lines Power outages See outages map Verify service status Report an outage or call 1 800 790-2424 24/7 If there is a risk to public safety or someone’s life, call 911. Planned service interruptions Locate the scheduled interruptions over the next few days. Service status by region See how many customers are without power in each Québec region. Vegetation near power lines Be proactive: If there’s a hazard involving vegetation near power lines, let us know. Avis importants Coronavirus (COVID-19) The following measures are designed to protect our customers, employees and partners during required on-site work related to our activities. Our customers and employees must: Avoid all unnecessary direct contact. Maintain a safe distance of two metres between each other. Follow the safety measures issued by public health authorities. Learn more about our prevention measures Your best ally in the event of an outage. Use our mobile app to report an outage and stay abreast of the situation. Sign up for alerts to receive a message if the anticipated service restoration time changes and/or once service is restored. Be prepared in case of a power outage. Have a list of emergency numbers on hand, unplug your electronics and check your electrical installations. Here’s a list of additional measures you should take before, during and after an outage. But above all, stay safe! Planning ahead During an outage After an outage Why are there outages? What causes outages? How can they be prevented? What steps are taken to restore service? Find the answers to all your questions. Understanding and preventing outages Liens importants Lien vers les sections principales Résidentiel Affaires Lien vers certains sites spécialisés À propos Mieux consommer Conseils de sécurité Nouvelles Nous joindre Info-pannes Emplois Tous nos sites Infolettres Suivez-nous Linkedin Youtube Facebook Instagram Twitter @hydroquebec Actualité de l’entreprise 								 @client_hydro Des questions sur votre facture, votre consommation d’électricité ou nos services ? 								 App mobile Apple Store Google Store Assistants vocaux Accueil Plan du site Conditions et confidentialité Accessibilité Nétiquette Accès à l’information et vie privée © Hydro-Québec, 1996-2021. Tous droits réservés.