Sociology MA Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/graduate/calendar/current/arts-and-science-programs/sociology-ma.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 Academics 	 	  /  	 Graduate programs 	 	  /  	 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Winter 2022 Graduate Calendar 	 	  /  	 Arts and Science Programs 	 	  /  	 Sociology MA 	 Sociology MA Admission RequirementsSolid undergraduate preparation with a range of competence similar to that demanded of Major students at Concordia, and a minimum B average in their undergraduate studies.Proficiency in English. Applicants whose primary language is not English must demonstrate that their knowledge of English is sufficient to pursue graduate studies in their chosen field. Please refer to the English language proficiency page for further information on requirements and exemptions.Language Requirements. Thesis proposals which depend on special linguistic skills will be accepted only from students competent in the appropriate languages. Additional Admission RequirementsQualified applicants requiring prerequisite courses may be required to take up to 12 undergraduate credits in addition to and as a part of the regular graduate program. Admission into the program is on recommendation of the Graduate Studies Committee. Degree RequirementsFully-qualified candidates are required to complete a minimum of 45 credits.Please see the Sociology and Anthropology Courses page for course descriptions.Sociology MA (45 credits)45credits chosen from one of the following options: MA in Arts in Sociology with Thesis (Option A) MA in Arts in Sociology without Thesis (Essay - Option B) Additional courses may be taken from outside the program, subject to the advice and approval of the student's supervisor or the Graduate Program Director. MA in Arts in Sociology with Thesis (Option A) (45 credits)18credits of Required Courses: • SOCI 602 Issues in Classical Sociological Theory (3.00) • SOCI 603 Issues in Contemporary Sociological Theory (3.00) • SOCI 612 Quantitative Research Design and Methods (3.00) • SOCI 613 Qualitative Research Design and Methods (3.00) • SOCI 660 Professional Development Seminar (3.00) • SOCI 690 Thesis Proposal (3.00) 6credits of Elective Courses chosen from the Sociology MA Selected Topics list 21credits: • SOCI 691 Thesis (21.00) MA in Arts in Sociology without Thesis (Essay - Option B) (45 credits)15credits of Required Courses: • SOCI 602 Issues in Classical Sociological Theory (3.00) • SOCI 603 Issues in Contemporary Sociological Theory (3.00) • SOCI 612 Quantitative Research Design and Methods (3.00) • SOCI 613 Qualitative Research Design and Methods (3.00) • SOCI 660 Professional Development Seminar (3.00) 12credits of Elective Courses chosen from the Sociology MA Selected Topics list18credits: • SOCI 695 Essay (18.00) Sociology MA Selected Topics • SOCI 601 Topics in Advanced Theory (3.00) • SOCI 611 Topics in Advanced Methodology (3.00) • SOCI 620 Population and Society (3.00) • SOCI 622 Studies in Race and Ethnicity (3.00) • SOCI 625 Sociology of Culture (3.00) • SOCI 626 North American Societies (3.00) • SOCI 627 Social Movements and Social Change (3.00) • SOCI 632 Sociology of the Family (3.00) • SOCI 633 Sociology of Knowledge (3.00) • SOCI 635 Gender Studies (3.00) • SOCI 637 Development (3.00) • SOCI 638 The City (3.00) • SOCI 639 Social Problems (3.00) • SOCI 640 Community Studies (3.00) • SOCI 642 Studies in Governance (3.00) • SOCI 644 Sociology of the Body (3.00) • SOCI 645 Sociology of Men (3.00) • SOCI 646 Globalization (3.00) • SOCI 647 Democracy and Citizenship (3.00) • SOCI 648 Health, Illness and Medicine (3.00) • SOCI 649 Media and Communication (3.00) • SOCI 652 Self and Subjectivity (3.00) • SOCI 653 Intellectual Biography (3.00) • SOCI 650 Special Topic in Sociology I (3.00) • SOCI 651 Special Topic in Sociology II (3.00) Additional Degree RequirementsCredits. Additional courses may be taken from outside the program, subject to the advice and approval of the student's supervisor or the Graduate Program Director.Supervision. Students are assigned an interim advisor upon admission. Students in the thesis option must select their permanent advisor by the beginning of the second term, along with a second committee member. Their thesis is evaluated by the two-person committee and a third examiner. Students in the non-thesis option select a permanent advisor by the beginning of the second term, and their final research papers are evaluated by the advisor and a second examiner.Language Requirement. A working knowledge of English and French is recommended, although written work may be submitted in either language. Where appropriate, students are encouraged to acquire competence in the language of the community they choose to study; this may be achieved in the context of ANTH 640Note 1. All students are required to plan courses related to their own interests with the help of advisors.Note 2. All students are required to take 3 credits of SOCI elective studies.Note 3. No more than 3 credits of elective studies taken outside the Department of Sociology and Anthropology may be credited towards the degree. Academic RegulationsAcademic Standing. Please refer to the Academic Standing section of the Calendar for a detailed review of the Academic Regulations.Residence. The minimum period of residence is two calendar years (6 terms) of full-time graduate study beyond the Master’s degree or the equivalent in part-time study.Time Limit. Please refer to the Academic Regulations page for further details regarding the Time Limits.Graduation Requirement. In order to graduate, students must have a cumulative GPA of at least 2.70. Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy