Students with disabilities · Help & how-to · Concordia University Library Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resources Campus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) What's New Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Concordia University Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Directories Hours A-Z Maps Library Library Research Skills Tutorial Ask a Librarian   				Log into ...  My Library Account (Sofia) View checkouts, fees, place requests and more Interlibrary Loans (Colombo) Request books from external libraries Zotero Manage your citations and create bibliographies BrowZine Browse & read journals through a friendly interface Article/Chapter Scan & Deliver Request a PDF of an article/chapter we have in our physical collection Course Reserves Online course readings Spectrum Deposit a thesis or article WebPrint Upload documents to print with DPrint Library hours Ask a librarian A-Z Find Sofia Discovery tool Databases by subject Course Reserves E-journals Browse & read journals (BrowZine) Article/Chapter Scan & Deliver Intercampus Delivery of Bound Periodicals/Microforms Interlibrary Loans (Colombo) Spectrum Research Repository Special Collections Additional resources & services Help & how-to Subject & course guides Loans & Returns (Circulation) General guides for users Finding... Evaluating... Writing... Citing... Using... Workshops Ask a librarian Alumni Research Skills Tutorial Research support Bibliometrics & research impact guide Concordia University Press Copyright guide Copyright guide for thesis preparation Digital scholarship Open Access ORCID at Concordia Research data management guide Special Collections Spectrum Research Repository How to get published speaker series Technology Borrow (laptops, tablets, equipment) Connect (netname, Wi-Fi, guest accounts) Desktop computers, software & availability maps Group study, presentation practice & classrooms Printers, copiers & scanners Technology Sandbox Visualization Studio Locations & hours Webster Library Vanier Library Grey Nuns Reading Room Book a group study room/scanner Study spaces Floor plans Room booking for academic events About the library News Events Exhibitions Librarians & staff University Librarian Work with us Memberships & collaborations Indigenous Student Librarian program Wikipedian in residence Researcher-in-Residence Feedback & improvement Annual reports & fast facts Strategic Plan 2016/21 Library Services Fund Giving to the Library Webster Transformation blog Policies & Code of Conduct The Campaign for Concordia Library Research Skills Tutorial 								 Log into... My Library account (Sofia) Interlibrary loans Zotero BrowZine Article/chapter scan Course reserves Spectrum WebPrint 								 Quick links Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resources Campus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) What's New Calendar of events Latest news Media Relations Faculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School of Engineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments Website to search  Sofia 						  Library 						  Concordia 						 Search Search Concordia.ca   /   Library   /   Help & how-to   /   General guides for   /   Students with disabilities Students with disabilities On this page OverviewLoans & Returns (Circulation)Book Chapter and Journal Article ScansRetrieval of materialCourse Reserve MaterialACSD Proxy BorrowerStudy roomsPhotocopying and printingSoftwareSpecial equipment Overview To be eligible for extended library services for users with disabilities, students must be registered with the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities. 	See Loans & Returns (Circulation) for information regarding loan periods, fines, returning items, etc. For any questions send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. Loans & Returns (Circulation) Users registered with the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities are eligible to request renewals and to check on the status of their loans by telephone or email. This can also be done online. Webster Loans & Returns desk - (514) 848-2424, ext. 7777; lib-circulation@concordia.ca Vanier Circulation desk - (514) 848-2424, ext. 7777; lib-circulation@concordia.ca Book chapter and journal article scans Article/Chapter Scan & Deliver: Articles and chapters from Concordia's collection of books and print or microform periodicals (e.g., journals, magazines, newspapers and conferences), as well as the front and back matter from print books, can be scanned and emailed to you as a PDF attachment. Please note that bound periodicals and periodicals on microform cannot be transferred to Vanier Library or Webster Library for pickup at this time. For any questions send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. Retrieval of material Users registered with the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities can provide a list of up to 10 items 			including call numbers for retrieval. Requests are accepted by telephone, e-mail and in-person via the Ask A Librarian service: Webster Questions? Ask Us! Desk - 514-848-2424, ext. 7700; email: lib-askalibrarian@concordia.ca Vanier Reference & Information Desk - 514-848-2424, ext. 7766; email: lib-askalibrarian@concordia.ca Note that requests to retrieve library items can also be achieved online via the Sofia Discovery tool. The items that are available will be retrieved within 48 hours and placed on hold for you for up to 3 days, in the case of undergraduate students, or 5 days, in the case of graduate students. For an update on your request send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. Extended loans on course reserve material Students registered with the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities can request to extend loans of course reserve material by an additional 3 hours by making a request during opening hours at either the Vanier Circulation Desk or the 	Webster Loans & Returns Desk at the time of the loan (note that this cannot be done at a self-checkout machine). For any questions send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. ACSD Proxy Borrower Students registered with the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities (ACSD) can appoint an individual to act as a representative of the user with disabilities and carry out library loans on their behalf. Concordia Library facilitates this process by providing a special library card to individuals who are duly appointed as ACSD Proxy Borrowers. This card is issued solely to enable the appointed Proxy Borrower to borrow material on behalf of the ACSD registered student according to that student’s library privileges. Students registered with the ACSD must expressly appoint individuals to act as their Proxy Borrower, by filling out the ACSD Proxy Borrower Appointment Form and reading the attendant Policy on Appointing ACSD Proxy Borrowers. The Proxy Borrower must then present the form and valid personal identification during opening hours at either the Vanier Circulation desk or the 	Webster Loans & Returns desk. Only one ACSD Proxy Borrower can be appointed at one time. Please note that no person is permitted to borrow library material by presenting the personal identification of another person; and no person may authorize the use of their own Concordia University ID card by another person. For any questions send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. Study rooms Group study rooms are available at both libraries. A group study room may be booked by one person with disabilities for individual or group use. For any questions send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. Photocopying and printing All users are responsible for making or arranging their own photocopying in the Library. Here is more information about DPrint. If you require 			assistance in using the photocopiers, you may arrange for help through the Access Centre for Students with Disabilities. Software The following software applications are available on all public workstations at Vanier and Webster Library (with the exception of the Express Workstations). iZoom Low Vision Screen Magnifier JAWS (Job Access with Speech) Screen Reader ClaroRead Plus for text-to-speech and writing help For any questions send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. Special equipment Smart View magnifiers allow you to enlarge a variety of documents and are available in LB-285 (Ireland Reading Room) of the Webster Library and on the 2nd floor at the Vanier Library. Other equipment available to borrow at the Vanier Library Circulation desk and Webster Library Loans & Returns desk that might be of interest include: Visual aid keyboard (Vanier Library only) Portable standing desks For any questions send an email to lib-circulation@concordia.ca. Updated: Monday 15 November 2021 Back to top CONCORDIA UNIVERSITY LIBRARY - 				Locations & phone numbers Home Find Help & how-to Research support Technology Locations & hours About the Library Undergraduate students Graduate students Students with disabilities Faculty Alumni Administrative staff Support staff External community Webster Library 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, 												Quebec, 												Canada H3G 1M8 See on SGW Campus map Vanier Library 7141 Sherbrooke St. W. Montreal, 												Quebec, 												Canada H4B 1R6 See on Loyola Campus map facebook twitter youtube linkedin instagram flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Feedback Provide feedback Feedback forms Close Thanks for your time. Please select your area of feedback. Give feedback about the Library's spaces, services, and/or collections Get help with my research, course work, or report a broken link Share this page Concordia University Library Locations & phone numbers Webster Library 1400 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, 						Quebec, 						Canada H3G 1M8 See on SGW Campus map Vanier Library 7141 Sherbrooke St. W. Montreal, 						Quebec, 						Canada H4B 1R6 See on Loyola Campus map Feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University