Submit your application Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/research/for-researchers/conrad.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 Research 	 	  /  	 Resources for researchers 	 	  /  	 Submit your application 	 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Submit your funding application Submit your application though the Concordia Research Administration Database (ConRAD), as well as to the funding agency, or finalize the process with the Partnerships and Innovation team. Grant application submission process The Research Grants unit provides an administrative review of the grant application and will send the faculty member comments and suggestions via e-mail. Using the comments and suggestions, the faculty member will prepare the final version of the application and all necessary copies. The final should be submitted to the OOR at least three working days before the agency deadline, to ensure that the last signature and approval from the University can be obtained. The grant application is then submitted, either electronically or by courier, to the agency. ConRAD is an automated system for the management of research information that allows for the internal review and endorsement of applications of grants and the submission of compliance protocols. Researchers can submit and review documents through ConRAD.   Download the ConRAD checklist View the ConRAD Tutorial Apply for Grant Funding There are still two elements to a research application: Your proposal to the sponsor, and University approval to apply. Available Forms: Grant Details Form Inter-institutional Details Form Seed Funding, Team Grants, Facilities Optimization, and Aid to Research Related Events Programs Easy Steps Open ConRAD. (The link can also be found on Carrefour's My CU Account page.)  Under "Apply New," open the necessary form about one week before the internal deadline. Complete the fields and attach the final version of your proposal. ConRAD automatically routes your request through the internal approval process, ending at the Office of Research (OOR). At the OOR, we can approve your application by: sending it to the sponsor via their online system, or signing the hardcopy, if the sponsor prefers a paper submission. When your proposal is ready for submission to the sponsor, follow the sponsor’s instructions: Sponsors using online systems: submit your final proposal through their system. The OOR will review and forward it to the sponsor. Paper Submissions: OOR will sign the application, and either you or an OOR employee can forward the hardcopy to the sponsor. Using ConRAD does not replace the need to submit your final proposal to the sponsor, but it is required for grant approvals. Submit a HREC protocol Available Forms: Human Research Ethics - Summary Protocol Form Easy Steps Open ConRAD. (You can also find this link on Carrefour's My CU Account page.) Under "Apply New," open a Summary Protocol Form (SPF) prior to the start of the research project. Complete the fields and attach the required documents. ConRAD automatically routes your request through to the Office of Research (OOR). Important: It may take up to six weeks for the committee’s decision. Data collection should not begin until ethics approval has been obtained. ConRAD support Did you try checking the ConRAD FAQ for what you're looking for? You can also view the ConRAD Tutorial. For ConRAD-related questions, please send an email to conrad@algol.concordia.ca. For VPN-related support, contact the IITS Service Desk at 514-848-2424, ext. 7613, or by email at help@concordia.ca. Important notes about using ConRAD To access ConRAD off-campus, you must log into Concordia's VPN service. Firefox and Chrome are the recommended browsers. The system does not work well with Safari. Access ConRAD using the link provided here, or go to Carrefour's My CU Account page. All grant applications are now routed through ConRAD. In My CU Account, you will also find your Explore Concordia profile, our online form for submitting and updating your Explore Concordia page. Please take this opportunity to review and update your page! If you still do not have an Explore Concordia page, please join your colleagues and create one.  See the FAQ if you experience problems or have questions. Questions? See the FAQ Find a funding opportunity Develop your proposal Submit your application Acquire ethics approval Manage your grant Explore partnerships and innovation Get answers to your questions FAQ Institutional policies and guidelines Research ASSIST-U Safeguarding Your Research Forms and Documents Grant Submission Memorandum Timeline for submission Grant Review ‐ Submission Process [PDF] Research Grant Writing Tips ConRAD tutorial Office of Research Consult our staff directory Email: office.of.research@concordia.ca Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 4395 Fax: 514-848-4290 Office of the VP, Research & Graduate Studies Consult our staff directory Phone: 514-848-2424, ext. 4395 Fax: 514-848-4010 Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy