Sustainable development | Hydro-Québec Skip to content Skip to the footer's menu Français Sustainable development 						Search 						 Sustainable development Putting our collective energy to work for the common good Sustainability at the heart of our operations Hydroelectricity Clean energy powering our future Sustainability Report 2020 Discover our 19th sustainability report, published in May 2021. Once again, we describe our performance over the last year with respect to our main environmental, social, economic and governance challenges. Report structure has been completely revised and will from now on be based on our Sustainable Development Plan 2020–2024, in effect since January 2020. New Integration of the comments made by an advisory committee composed of external stakeholders from each of the different stakeholder groups with whom we work closely. New The Sustainability Report is available exclusively in electronic format. Leaf through the Sustainability Report 2020 (optimized for mobile devices) Download the Sustainability Report 2020 [PDF 9.46 MB] This is an interactive PDF. For an optimal experience, make sure you open it with Adobe Acrobat Reader or Adobe Acrobat Pro Change our habits to make our economy greener. See how our collective dreams are taking shape Our Sustainable Development Plan 2020-2024 View the summary of our sustainable development strategies To guide us forward, we’ve drawn up the Sustainable Development Plan 2020–2024. Structured around the three pillars of Governance, Community and Environment, this ambitious 									Sustainable Development Plan lays out 12 strategies linked to specific improvement targets and performance indicators. View our Sustainable Development plan 2020-2024 Sustainability achievements sustainable development in 2020? Our approach For Hydro-Québec, sustainable development is an integral part of all our activities and projects. Find out how it affects in particular environmental protection, social progress and economic performance. Energy transition and innovation Hydropower and the environment Corporate responsibility and social commitment The energy sector is changing and electricity generation worldwide is increasingly green. We are committed to this energy transition. We develop innovative technologies that allow us to provide our customers with new products and services and we support the development of other renewable energy sources. In this section you will find information on the following topics: Power supply and demand Research and development Transportation electrification Solar power The effects of climate change are significant, and we are working hard to reduce our dependence on fossil fuels. In North America, our electricity exports enable us to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. But that’s not all we do: our goal is also to decarbonize Québec’s economy while incorporating environmental management and biodiversity preservation into all our activities. In this section, you will find information on the following topics: Hydroelectricity Climate change Environmental management Our projects and activities affect your daily life. We put every effort into ensuring that our facilities blend into the surrounding environment as seamlessly as possible. We take the expectations expressed by the communities concerned into account and adapt our projects as much as possible. In this way, we strive to ensure that our activities ae socially acceptable and generate economic spinoffs throughout Québec. In this section you will find information on the following topics: Community investments Social acceptability and public participation Health, safety and security Our customers Responsible suppliers Want to find out more? Download a report Sustainability Report 2019 [PDF 10 MB] Sustainability Report 2018 [PDF 17,5 MB] Summary 2018 [PDF 447 kB] Sustainability Report 2017 [PDF 17,5 MB] Summary 2017 [PDF 292 kB] Sustainability Report 2016 [PDF 11,8 MB] Summary 2016 [PDF 1 MB] Specialized Documentation Sustainable Development Plan Biodiversity Performance Report Summaries of environmental knowledge Net reservoir evaporation Greenhouse gas emissions and reservoirs GHG emissions and Hydro-Québec electricity Hydro-Québec and the mercury issue Hydroelectric developments and fish Life cycle assessment at Hydro-Québec Environmental follow-up Renewable energy sources: current state of knowledge Specialized content Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Responsible Supplier Sustainable Development Plan 2020‑2024 Questions about sustainable development? Contact us. Contact us Important links Home Site map Terms and confidentiality Accessibility Netiquette Access to Information and Privacy © Hydro-Québec, 1996-2021. All rights reserved.