Undergraduate Calendar Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/academics/undergraduate/calendar.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University MyConcordia Shuttle bus Maps About Expend Next-Generation University Administration & governance Strategic directions Indigenous Directions Black Perspectives Office Community engagement Quartier Concordia Working at Concordia Sustainability hub Quick links Fast facts History Offices A-Z News Events Open data Academics Expend Undergraduate programs Graduate programs Academic units Continuing education Experiential learning Co-operative education Online courses Summer at Concordia BIPOC course list Quick links Student Success Centre Graduate & Professional Skills Study abroad Academic integrity Admissions Expend Undergraduate Graduate International student admissions Financial aid & awards Tours & events Quick links Tuition & fees Student housing Language Test Centre Concordia Continuing Education Campus life Expend Arts & culture hub Athletics Health & wellness Food & housing Get involved Orientation & new students Recreation, sports & fitness All campus services Quick links Student Success Centre Residence life Jobs on campus University of the Streets Café Student life Sustainability Hub Research Expend Resources for researchers Research units Research Chairs Students & postdocs Funding opportunities External prizes & awards Research spotlights Quick links COVID-19 FAQ for researchers Strategic research plan Explore research, teaching & learning ConRAD About the research sector International Expend International student admissions Students from abroad Language Test Centre Partnerships Academic visitors Quick links Concordia International International Students Office Global alumni Cotutelle The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for...   Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Home 	 	  /  	 Academics 	 	  /  	 Undergraduate programs 	 	  /  	 Undergraduate Calendar 	 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Undergraduate Calendar View the 2021-2022Undergraduate Calendar Quick links toCourse descriptions PDF sections ofthe Undergraduate Calendar Entire 2021-22 PDFUndergraduate Calendar Please note that the current version of the Undergraduate Calendar is up to date as of February 2021. Archived calendars Previous online Undergraduate Calendars 2020-2021 2019-2020 2018-2019 2017-2018 2016-2017 2015-2016 2014-2015 2013-2014 Archived Undergraduate Calendars The Undergraduate Calendar is an official University document. It defines academic programs and the regulations that pertain to them. The University Senate reserves the right to modify the academic programs and regulations at its discretion after the posting date of the Calendar. In addition, the University reserves the right to modify the posted scale of tuition and other student fees and to limit the number of students who enrol in any program or course at any time before the beginning of an academic term. Moreover, the information contained in the Undergraduate Calendar or any other University document related to academic programs, deadlines, and regulations is subject to verification and correction by the Office of the Registrar and the School of Graduate Studies. Not all courses listed in this Calendar are offered this year. Students are advised to consult the Undergraduate Class Schedule for a timetable of courses offered. Please note that the Undergraduate Calendar is available solely online and constitutes the official Undergraduate Calendar of the University. The most recent version of the Calendar is the only version currently in effect. Students are responsible for ensuring that graduation requirements are met, in accordance with the requirements set out in the Calendar corresponding to the year of admission, except for Engineering programs. Students in the Engineering programs are required to graduate having met the substantial equivalent of the curriculum in force in the winter term prior to degree conferral. Archived Calendars may be consulted using the “Archived Calendars” link. This Calendar is intended to assist readers to understand the academic and administrative structure and policies and procedures of the University, and to describe the academic programs offered. The material has been submitted by academic units and administrative departments. Every effort has been made to ensure that all general information and course references are accurate as of the date of posting, but these are subject to possible verification and correction. By the act of registration each student becomes bound by the policies and regulations of Concordia University, including the Faculty in which the student is registered. Students are responsible for familiarizing themselves with the general information, rules and regulations contained in the Calendar, and with the specific information, rules and regulations of the Faculty or Faculties in which they are registered or enrolled or seek registration or enrolment, as well as the specific requirements of each degree or certificate sought. It is the student’s responsibility to ensure that the courses chosen are appropriate to the program requirements. Concordia University disclaims all responsibility and liability for loss or damage suffered or incurred by any student or other party as a result of delays in or termination of its services, courses, or classes by reason of force majeure, including fire, flood, riots, war, strikes, lock-outs, damage to University property, financial exigency and/or other events beyond the reasonable control of the University. Concordia University disclaims any and all liability for damages arising as a result of errors, interruptions or disruptions to operations or connected with its operations or its campuses, arising out of computer failure or non-compliance of its computing systems. Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy