Virtual Event Planning Skip to main content Concordia Universityhttps://www.concordia.ca/content/concordia/en/hospitality/event-planning/virtual.html Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links The Campaign for Concordia MyConcordia Carrefour Library Directories A-Z Maps Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Concordia University Site search Menu Concordia University Hospitality Concordia Event Planning Expend Virtual Event Planning Get Started Space Reservation Food & Catering for Events Policies, Forms and Waivers Events for 2021-22 Campus Food Services Alcohol Parking Lockers The Campaign for Concordia Study resources Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Quick links   Webmail Library Carrefour Study resources   Calendar - Graduate Calendar - Undergraduate Class schedules Class cancellations Course registration Important academic dates More academic resourcesCampus services   Book Stop IT services Job opportunities Security Mental health support Student Service Centre (Birks) All campus servicesWhat's new   Calendar of events Latest news Media RelationsFaculties, Schools & Colleges   Arts and Science Gina Cody School ofEngineering and Computer Science Fine Arts John Molson School of Business School of Graduate Studies All Schools, Colleges & Departments. Information for... Future students Student hub Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Site search Concordia Directories Search Hospitality Concordia Concordia.ca 	 	  /  	 Hospitality Concordia 	 	  /  	 Event Planning 	 	  /  	 Virtual Event Planning 	 Facebook Twitter LinkedIn Virtual Event Planning Hospitality is happy to help you transform your in-person events into virtual format. Learn more about our virtual services below and don't hesitate to contact us to start planning your online events! Services offered Virtual events — though different — can be equally as effective as in⁠-⁠person events and Hospitality Concordia can help you make them happen! We offer an array of services using “in-house” tools to help you manage and deliver the best possible virtual events. Our specialized event coordination services help support: Web conferences Webinars Integrated virtual ‘spaces’ Outsourced virtual software Event coordinators Hospitality Concordia event coordinators can help you: transform your events from face-to-face to a virtual environment identify the best tools to facilitate presentations, collaboration, networking and engagement manage registrations (free or paid), participants and payment systems for open and closed events provide experience-based knowledge and best practices to add value to your event We’ll help you find the best virtual solutions to make your event a success. Contact us at hospitality.booking@concordia.ca to get started! Event services and pricing Like in-person event planning, virtual event planning services are available to the community for a fee. Quotes will be provided following an assessment of required needs. Virtual and on-site technical support is also available through Institutional and Information Technology Services (IITS) and will be coordinated with your Event Coordinator unless planning your event as a DIY. Working closely with Hospitality, IITS provides expertise on the technical components of virtual events, events on campus, and hybrids between both environments. Consultation services are available to assess the IT needs of your events, provide support with approved virtual tools, help supply required audio-visual equipment and/or provide technicians to assist during your events. Note: many of the online tools used to host a virtual event are available to the internal Concordia community free of charge.  Event types Web conferencing The primary tools recommended for web conferencing are Zoom and MS Teams. Web conference meetings foster collaboration and interaction and can be done on a self-serve basis or for complex and high-profile events, with assistance from our team. These services are available free of charge for all active members of the Concordia community.  Webinars The primary tool recommended for webinars is Zoom. Webinars are best used for professional presentations with one or more panelists. Interaction is limited but the host has more control over delivery. This service is available free of charge for all active members of the Concordia community. Integrated virtual ‘spaces’ The creation of an integrated virtual ‘space’ is recommended for events with several components. Similar to a website, a virtual event ‘space’ can provide a single online location to help manage things such as: multiple sessions breakout rooms networking session speaker profiles registration programming different delivery platforms Managed by Hospitality Concordia, this service is available to all students, staff, faculty, Concordia associations and external clients associated with Concordia. The PETS international Conference is an example of a Hospitality Concordia-coordinated integrated virtual ‘space.’ Outsourced virtual software ($) In some circumstances, our internal tools may not meet your event needs. If budget allows, external online tools may be recommended to help facilitate your event. Please note that before paying for an outsourced tool, an approval process with internal sectors will be required. Learn more about the virtual and on-site technical support with IITS.  Event coordination and support is still available when using external software for all members of the Concordia community and external clients associated with Concordia. Big Picture Orientation and Open House are examples of Hospitality Concordia-coordinated outsourced virtual software events. Virtual event success stories Concordia hosts its first international virtual conference August 10, 2020 Arts and Science pivots to celebrate its high academic achievers October 16, 2020     Event PlanningVirtual Event PlanningGet StartedSpace ReservationFood & Catering for EventsApproved Caterers ListPolicies, Forms and WaiversEvents for 2021-22   Contact us Staff directory Back to top © Concordia University Concordia University - Call us at 514-848-2424 About Academics Admissions Campus life Research International Careers Future students Current students Alumni & friends Parents Faculty & staff Media Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map instagram linkedin facebook twitter youtube flickr Concordia social © Concordia University Terms Privacy Accessibility Contact us Website feedback Concordia.ca Call us at 514-848-2424 Sir George Williams Campus 1455 De Maisonneuve Blvd. W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H3G 1M8 See SGW Campus map Loyola Campus 7141 Sherbrooke Street W. Montreal, Quebec, Canada H4B 1R6 See Loyola Campus map Share this page Share on Facebook Share on Twitter Share on LinkedIn Contact us Website feedback Terms Privacy Accessibility © Concordia University Concordia University uses technical, analytical, marketing and preference cookies. These are necessary for our site to function properly and to create the best possible online experience. Accept   Privacy policy